# A spatial code for temporal information is necessary for efficient sensory learning

## 用于时间信息的空间代码对于有效的感官学习是必要的

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/sciadv.adr6214?af=R

**Authors:** Sophie Bagur, Jacques Bourg, Alexandre Kempf, Thibault Tarpin, Khalil Bergaoui, Yin Guo, Sebastian Ceballo, Joanna Schwenkgrub, Antonin Verdier, Jean Luc Puel, Jérôme Bourien, Brice Bathellier

Science Advances, Volume 11, Issue 2, January 2025. <br />


---
# Virtual Gram staining of label-free bacteria using dark-field microscopy and deep learning

## 使用暗视野显微镜和深度学习对无标记细菌进行虚拟革兰氏染色

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/sciadv.ads2757?af=R

**Authors:** Çağatay Işıl, Hatice Ceylan Koydemir, Merve Eryilmaz, Kevin de Haan, Nir Pillar, Koray Mentesoglu, Aras Firat Unal, Yair Rivenson, Sukantha Chandrasekaran, Omai B. Garner, Aydogan Ozcan

Science Advances, Volume 11, Issue 2, January 2025. <br />


---
# Open-set deep learning–enabled single-cell Raman spectroscopy for rapid identification of airborne pathogens in real-world environments

## 基于开放式深度学习的单细胞拉曼光谱，可快速识别真实环境中的空气传播病原体

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/sciadv.adp7991?af=R

**Authors:** Longji Zhu, Yunan Yang, Fei Xu, Xinyu Lu, Mingrui Shuai, Zhulin An, Xiaomeng Chen, Hu Li, Francis L. Martin, Peter J. Vikesland, Bin Ren, Zhong-Qun Tian, Yong-Guan Zhu, Li Cui

Science Advances, Volume 11, Issue 2, January 2025. <br />


---
# An index-free sparse neural network using two-dimensional semiconductor ferroelectric field-effect transistors

## 使用二维半导体铁电场效应晶体管的无索引稀疏神经网络

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41928-024-01328-4

**Authors:** Xinran Wang

<p>Nature Electronics, Published online: 08 January 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41928-024-01328-4">doi:10.1038/s41928-024-01328-4</a></p>Ferroelectric field-effect transistors based on molybdenum disulfide can be used to build an in-memory sparsity architecture in which index memory is moved next to individual synapses, creating a sparse neural network without external memory indexing.


---
# Neural network decoder for near-term surface-code experiments

## 用于近期表面代码实验的神经网络解码器

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.7.013029

**Authors:** Boris M. Varbanov, Marc Serra-Peralta, David Byfield, and Barbara M. Terhal

Author(s): Boris M. Varbanov, Marc Serra-Peralta, David Byfield, and Barbara M. Terhal<br /><p>Neural network decoders can achieve a lower logical error rate compared to conventional decoders, like minimum-weight perfect matching, when decoding the surface code. Furthermore, these decoders require no prior information about the physical error rates, making them highly adaptable. In this study…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 7, 013029] Published Wed Jan 08, 2025


---
# Neural network quantum states for the interacting Hofstadter model with higher local occupations and long-range interactions

## 具有较高局部职业和远距离相互作用的相互作用Hofstadter模型的神经网络量子态

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.045408

**Authors:** Fabian Döschl, Felix A. Palm, Hannah Lange, Fabian Grusdt, and Annabelle Bohrdt

Author(s): Fabian Döschl, Felix A. Palm, Hannah Lange, Fabian Grusdt, and Annabelle Bohrdt<br /><p>Due to their immense representative power, neural network quantum states (NQS) have gained significant interest in current research. In recent advances in the field of NQS, it has been demonstrated that this approach can compete with state-of-the-art numerical techniques, making NQS a compelling alt…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 045408] Published Wed Jan 08, 2025


---
# Anomalously High Apparent Young's Modulus of Ultrathin Freestanding PZT Films Revealed by Machine Learning Empowered Nanoindentation

## 机器学习授权的纳米压痕揭示了超薄独立式PZT薄膜的异常高表观杨氏模量

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202412635?af=R

**Authors:** Longji Lyu, 
Chunlin Song, 
Yanghe Wang, 
Dirui Wu, 
Yingli Zhang, 
Shengyao Su, 
Boyuan Huang, 
Changjian Li, 
Mengkang Xu, 
Jiangyu Li

Advanced Materials, Volume 37, Issue 1, January 8, 2025.


---
# Deep‐Learning Empowered Customized Chiral Metasurface for Calibration‐Free Biosensing

## 深度学习支持定制的手性超表面，用于无校准生物传感

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202411490?af=R

**Authors:** Nan Zhang, 
Feng Gao, 
Ride Wang, 
Zhonglei Shen, 
Donghai Han, 
Yuqing Cui, 
Liuyang Zhang, 
Chao Chang, 
Cheng‐wei Qiu, 
Xuefeng Chen

Advanced Materials, Volume 37, Issue 1, January 8, 2025.


---
# A Cascaded Duplex Organic Vertical Memory with Learning Rate Scheduling for Efficient Artificial Neural Network Training

## 具有学习率调度的级联双工有机垂直存储器，用于有效的人工神经网络训练

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202419179?af=R

**Authors:** Qinyong Dai, 
Mengjiao Pei, 
Ziqian Hao, 
Xiang Li, 
Chao Ai, 
Yating Li, 
Kuakua Lu, 
Xu Chen, 
Qijing Wang, 
Changjin Wan, 
Yun Li

Advanced Functional Materials, EarlyView.


---
# DenseGNN: universal and scalable deeper graph neural networks for high-performance property prediction in crystals and molecules

## DenseGNN: 用于晶体和分子中高性能属性预测的通用且可扩展的深层图形神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03278

**Authors:** Hongwei Du, Jiamin Wang, Jian Hui, Lanting Zhang, Hong Wang

arXiv:2501.03278v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Generative models generate vast numbers of hypothetical materials, necessitating fast, accurate models for property prediction. Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) excel in this domain but face challenges like high training costs, domain adaptation issues, and over-smoothing. We introduce DenseGNN, which employs Dense Connectivity Network (DCN), Hierarchical Node-Edge-Graph Residual Networks (HRN), and Local Structure Order Parameters Embedding (LOPE) to address these challenges. DenseGNN achieves state-of-the-art performance on datasets such as JARVIS-DFT, Materials Project, and QM9, improving the performance of models like GIN, Schnet, and Hamnet on materials datasets. By optimizing atomic embeddings and reducing computational costs, DenseGNN enables deeper architectures and surpasses other GNNs in crystal structure distinction, approaching X-ray diffraction method accuracy. This advances materials discovery and design.


---
# Simulating Pattern Recognition Using Non-volatile Synapses: MRAM, Ferroelectrics and Magnetic Skyrmions

## 使用非易失性突触模拟模式识别: MRAM，铁电体和磁性skyrmim

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03450

**Authors:** Luis Sosa, Minhyeok Wi, Miguel Barrera, Imran Nasrullah, Yingying Wu

arXiv:2501.03450v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This project explores the use of non-volatile synapses in neuromorphic computing for pattern recognition tasks through a comprehensive simulation-based approach. The main approach is through spintronic synapses, which leverage the electron's spin properties to achieve efficient data processing and storage. This offers a promising alternative to traditional electronic synapses which require constant power recharge to prevent data leakage. The goal is to develop and simulate a neural network model that incorporates spintronic synapses, examining their potential to perform complex pattern recognition tasks such as image and sound classification. By building a simulation environment, we will replicate various models, including spin transfer torque based MRAM, voltage controlled magnetic anisotropy based MRAM, ferroelectric field effect transistors, and skyrmion based nanotrack for synaptic devices, to evaluate their performance and compare results across different non-volatile implementations. The findings will highlight the effectiveness of spintronic synapses in creating low-power, high-performance neuromorphic hardware, providing valuable insights into their application for future energy-efficient artificial intelligence systems.


---
# Kinetic theory of decentralized learning for smart active matter

## 智能活动物质分散学习的动力学理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03948

**Authors:** Gerhard Jung, Misaki Ozawa, Eric Bertin

arXiv:2501.03948v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Smart active matter describes agents which can process information according to their individual policy to solve predefined tasks. We introduce a theoretical framework to study a decentralized learning process in which agents can locally exchange their policy to optimize their reward and thus attain target macroscopic states. We use our formalism to derive explicit hydrodynamic equations for the policy dynamics. We apply the theory to two different microscopic models where policies correspond either to fixed parameters similar to evolutionary dynamics, or to state-dependent controllers known from the field of robotics. We find good agreement between theoretical predictions and agent-based simulations. By deriving fundamental control parameters and uncertainty relations, our work lays the foundations for a statistical physics analysis of decentralized learning.


---
# Supervised and unsupervised learning the many-body critical phase, phase transitions and critical exponents in disordered quantum systems

## 监督和无监督学习无序量子系统中的多体临界相位，相变和临界指数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03981

**Authors:** Aamna Ahmed, Nilanjan Roy

arXiv:2501.03981v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this work, we begin by questioning the existence of a new kind of nonergodic extended phase, namely, the many-body critical (MBC) phase in finite systems of an interacting quasiperiodic system. We find that this phase can be separately detected from the other phases such as the many-body ergodic (ME) and many-body localized (MBL) phases in the model through supervised neural networks made for both binary and multi-class classification tasks, utilizing, rather un-preprocessed, eigenvalue spacings and eigenvector probability densities as input features. Moreover, the output of our trained neural networks can also indicate the critical points separating ME, MBC and MBL phases, which are consistent with the same obtained from other conventional methods. We also employ unsupervised learning techniques, particularly principal component analysis (PCA) of eigenvector probability densities to investigate how this framework, without any training, captures the, rather unknown, many-body phases (ME, MBL and MBC) and single particle phases (delocalized, localized and critical) of the interacting and non-interacting systems, respectively. Our findings reveal that PCA entropy serves as an effective indicator (order parameter) for detecting phase transitions in the single-particle systems. Moreover, this method proves applicable to many-body systems when the data undergoes a suitable pre-processing. Interestingly, when it comes to extraction of critical (correlation length) exponents through a finite size-scaling, we find that for single-particle systems, scaling collapse of neural network outputs is obtained using components of inverse participation ratio (IPR) as input data. Remarkably, we observe identical critical exponents as obtained from scaling collapse of the IPR directly for different single-particle phase transitions.


---
# Neural networks consisting of DNA

## 由DNA组成的神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03235

**Authors:** Michael te Vrugt

arXiv:2501.03235v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Neural networks based on soft and biological matter constitute an interesting potential alternative to traditional implementations based on electric circuits. DNA is a particularly promising system in this context due its natural ability to store information. In recent years, researchers have started to construct neural networks that are based on DNA. In this chapter, I provide a very basic introduction to the concept of DNA neural networks, aiming at an audience that is not familiar with biochemistry.


---
# Advanced Displacement Magnitude Prediction in Multi-Material Architected Lattice Structure Beams Using Physics Informed Neural Network Architecture

## 使用物理信息神经网络架构在多材料体系结构的晶格结构梁中进行高级位移幅度预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03254

**Authors:** Akshansh Mishra

arXiv:2501.03254v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This paper proposes an innovative method for predicting deformation in architected lattice structures that combines Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) with finite element analysis. A thorough study was carried out on FCC-based lattice beams utilizing five different materials (Structural Steel, AA6061, AA7075, Ti6Al4V, and Inconel 718) under varied edge loads (1000-10000 N). The PINN model blends data-driven learning with physics-based limitations via a proprietary loss function, resulting in much higher prediction accuracy than linear regression. PINN outperforms linear regression, achieving greater R-square (0.7923 vs 0.5686) and lower error metrics (MSE: 0.00017417 vs 0.00036187). Among the materials examined, AA6061 had the highest displacement sensitivity (0.1014 mm at maximum load), while Inconel718 had better structural stability.


---
# Evolved Quantum Boltzmann Machines

## 进化的量子玻尔兹曼机

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03367

**Authors:** Michele Minervini, Dhrumil Patel, Mark M. Wilde

arXiv:2501.03367v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We introduce evolved quantum Boltzmann machines as a variational ansatz for quantum optimization and learning tasks. Given two parameterized Hamiltonians $G(\theta)$ and $H(\phi)$, an evolved quantum Boltzmann machine consists of preparing a thermal state of the first Hamiltonian $G(\theta)$ followed by unitary evolution according to the second Hamiltonian $H(\phi)$. Alternatively, one can think of it as first realizing imaginary time evolution according to $G(\theta)$ followed by real time evolution according to $H(\phi)$. After defining this ansatz, we provide analytical expressions for the gradient vector and illustrate their application in ground-state energy estimation and generative modeling, showing how the gradient for these tasks can be estimated by means of quantum algorithms that involve classical sampling, Hamiltonian simulation, and the Hadamard test. We also establish analytical expressions for the Fisher-Bures, Wigner-Yanase, and Kubo-Mori information matrix elements of evolved quantum Boltzmann machines, as well as quantum algorithms for estimating each of them, which leads to at least three different general natural gradient descent algorithms based on this ansatz. Along the way, we establish a broad generalization of the main result of [Luo, Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 132, 885 (2004)], proving that the Fisher-Bures and Wigner-Yanase information matrices of general parameterized families of states differ by no more than a factor of two in the matrix (Loewner) order, making them essentially interchangeable for training when using natural gradient descent.


---
# Text to Band Gap: Pre-trained Language Models as Encoders for Semiconductor Band Gap Prediction

## 文本到带隙: 预训练的语言模型作为半导体带隙预测的编码器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03456

**Authors:** Ying-Ting Yeh, Janghoon Ock, Amir Barati Farimani

arXiv:2501.03456v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In this study, we explore the use of a transformer-based language model as an encoder to predict the band gaps of semiconductor materials directly from their text descriptions. Quantum chemistry simulations, including Density Functional Theory (DFT), are computationally intensive and time-consuming, which limits their practicality for high-throughput material screening, particularly for complex systems. Shallow machine learning (ML) models, while effective, often require extensive data preprocessing to convert non-numerical material properties into numerical inputs. In contrast, our approach leverages textual data directly, bypassing the need for complex feature engineering. We generate material descriptions in two formats: formatted strings combining features and natural language text generated using the ChatGPT API. We demonstrate that the RoBERTa model, pre-trained on natural language processing tasks, performs effectively as an encoder for prediction tasks. With minimal fine-tuning, it achieves a mean absolute error (MAE) of approximately 0.33 eV, performing better than shallow machine learning models such as Support Vector Regression, Random Forest, and XGBoost. Even when only the linear regression head is trained while keeping the RoBERTa encoder layers frozen, the accuracy remains nearly identical to that of the fully trained model. This demonstrates that the pre-trained RoBERTa encoder is highly adaptable for processing domain-specific text related to material properties, such as the band gap, significantly reducing the need for extensive retraining. This study highlights the potential of transformer-based language models to serve as efficient and versatile encoders for semiconductor materials property prediction tasks.


---
# A precise asymptotic analysis of learning diffusion models: theory and insights

## 学习扩散模型的精确渐近分析: 理论和见解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03937

**Authors:** Hugo Cui, Cengiz Pehlevan, Yue M. Lu

arXiv:2501.03937v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In this manuscript, we consider the problem of learning a flow or diffusion-based generative model parametrized by a two-layer auto-encoder, trained with online stochastic gradient descent, on a high-dimensional target density with an underlying low-dimensional manifold structure. We derive a tight asymptotic characterization of low-dimensional projections of the distribution of samples generated by the learned model, ascertaining in particular its dependence on the number of training samples. Building on this analysis, we discuss how mode collapse can arise, and lead to model collapse when the generative model is re-trained on generated synthetic data.


---
# Predicting quantum materials properties using novel faithful machine learning embeddings

## 使用新型忠实的机器学习嵌入预测量子材料特性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.18388

**Authors:** Gavin Nop, Micah Mundy, Durga Paudyal, Jonathan Smith

arXiv:2407.18388v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Machine Learning (ML) is accelerating the progress of materials prediction and classification, with particular success in CGNN designs. While classical ML methods remain accessible, advanced deep networks are still challenging to build and train. We introduce two new adaptations and refine two existing ML networks for generic crystalline quantum materials properties prediction and optimization. These new models achieve state-of-the-art performance in predicting TQC classification and strong performance in predicting band gaps, magnetic classifications, formation energies, and symmetry group. All networks easily generalize to all quantum crystalline materials property predictions. To support this, full implementations and automated methods for data handling and materials predictions are provided, facilitating the use of deep ML methods in quantum materials science. Finally, dataset error rates are analyzed using an ensemble model to identify and highlight highly atypical materials for further investigations.


---
# Enhancing creep resistance in refractory high-entropy alloys: role of grain size and local chemical order

## 提高耐火高熵合金的抗蠕变性: 晶粒尺寸和局部化学顺序的作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00588

**Authors:** Saifuddin Zafar, Mashaekh Tausif Ehsan, Sourav Das Suvro, Mahmudul Islam, Mohammad Nasim Hasan

arXiv:2412.00588v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Refractory high-entropy alloys (RHEAs) are a promising class of materials with potential applications in extreme environments, where the dominant failure mode is thermal creep. The design of these alloys, therefore, requires an understanding of how their microstructure and local chemical distribution affect creep behavior. In this study, we performed high-fidelity atomistic simulations using machine-learning interatomic potentials to explore the creep deformation of MoNbTaW RHEAs under a wide range of stress and temperature conditions. We parametrized grain size and local chemical order (LCO) to investigate the effects of these two important design variables, which are controllable during the alloy fabrication process. Our investigation revealed that resistance to creep deformation is enhanced by larger grain sizes and higher levels of LCO. This study highlights the importance of utilizing LCO in conjunction with other microstructural properties when designing RHEAs for extreme environment applications.


---
# Dataset-Free Weight-Initialization on Restricted Boltzmann Machine

## 受限玻尔兹曼机的无数据集权重初始化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07708

**Authors:** Muneki Yasuda, Ryosuke Maeno, Chako Takahashi

arXiv:2409.07708v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: In feed-forward neural networks, dataset-free weight-initialization methods such as LeCun, Xavier (or Glorot), and He initializations have been developed. These methods randomly determine the initial values of weight parameters based on specific distributions (e.g., Gaussian or uniform distributions) without using training datasets. To the best of the authors' knowledge, such a dataset-free weight-initialization method is yet to be developed for restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs), which are probabilistic neural networks consisting of two layers. In this study, we derive a dataset-free weight-initialization method for Bernoulli--Bernoulli RBMs based on statistical mechanical analysis. In the proposed weight-initialization method, the weight parameters are drawn from a Gaussian distribution with zero mean. The standard deviation of the Gaussian distribution is optimized based on our hypothesis that a standard deviation providing a larger layer correlation (LC) between the two layers improves the learning efficiency. The expression of the LC is derived based on a statistical mechanical analysis. The optimal value of the standard deviation corresponds to the maximum point of the LC. The proposed weight-initialization method is identical to Xavier initialization in a specific case (i.e., when the sizes of the two layers are the same, the random variables of the layers are $\{-1,1\}$-binary, and all bias parameters are zero). The validity of the proposed weight-initialization method is demonstrated in numerical experiments using a toy and real-world datasets.


---
# Machine-learning identified nitride quantum wells for enhanced red emission

## 用于增强红光发射的机器学习识别氮化物量子阱

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23591

**Authors:** Nick Pant, Rob Armitage, Emmanouil Kioupakis

arXiv:2410.23591v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: III-nitride heterostructures are critical for achieving polychromatic micron-scale pixels in extended-reality and biomedical applications, however red emission remains challenging. Here, we address this challenge by systematically exploring their design space with machine learning. We surprisingly uncover that larger polarization fields globally correlate with higher wave-function overlaps for red emission. The key is the quantum-confined Stark effect, which enables a reduction in well width while avoiding the associated increase in In composition. We outline strategies for engineering polarization fields through the tuning of composition, strain, and interlayer and quantum-barrier thicknesses. Without polarization fields, efficient red emission would not be possible in nitride LEDs given the current challenges in nitride epitaxy. Our results show how polarization can improve light emission from polar semiconductor heterostructures.


---
# Neural networks consisting of DNA

## 由DNA组成的神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03235

**Authors:** Michael te Vrugt

arXiv:2501.03235v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Neural networks based on soft and biological matter constitute an interesting potential alternative to traditional implementations based on electric circuits. DNA is a particularly promising system in this context due its natural ability to store information. In recent years, researchers have started to construct neural networks that are based on DNA. In this chapter, I provide a very basic introduction to the concept of DNA neural networks, aiming at an audience that is not familiar with biochemistry.


---
# The Artificial Scientist -- in-transit Machine Learning of Plasma Simulations

## 人工科学家 -- 等离子体模拟的在途机器学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03383

**Authors:** Jeffrey Kelling, Vicente Bolea, Michael Bussmann, Ankush Checkervarty, Alexander Debus, Jan Ebert, Greg Eisenhauer, Vineeth Gutta, Stefan Kesselheim, Scott Klasky, Richard Pausch, Norbert Podhorszki, Franz Poschel, David Rogers, Jeyhun Rustamov, Steve Schmerler, Ulrich Schramm, Klaus Steiniger, Rene Widera, Anna Willmann, Sunita Chandrasekaran

arXiv:2501.03383v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Increasing HPC cluster sizes and large-scale simulations that produce petabytes of data per run, create massive IO and storage challenges for analysis. Deep learning-based techniques, in particular, make use of these amounts of domain data to extract patterns that help build scientific understanding. Here, we demonstrate a streaming workflow in which simulation data is streamed directly to a machine-learning (ML) framework, circumventing the file system bottleneck. Data is transformed in transit, asynchronously to the simulation and the training of the model. With the presented workflow, data operations can be performed in common and easy-to-use programming languages, freeing the application user from adapting the application output routines. As a proof-of-concept we consider a GPU accelerated particle-in-cell (PIConGPU) simulation of the Kelvin- Helmholtz instability (KHI). We employ experience replay to avoid catastrophic forgetting in learning from this non-steady process in a continual manner. We detail challenges addressed while porting and scaling to Frontier exascale system.


---
# Interface reconstruction of adhering droplets for distortion correction using glare points and deep learning

## 使用眩光点和深度学习进行粘附液滴的界面重建以进行失真校正

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03453

**Authors:** Maximilian Dreisbach, Itzel Hinojos, Jochen Kriegseis, Alexander Stroh, Sebastian Burgmann

arXiv:2501.03453v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The flow within adhering droplets subjected to external shear flows has a significant influence on the stability and eventual detachment of the droplets from the surface. Most commonly, the velocity field inside adhering droplets is measured by means of particle image velocimetry (PIV), which requires a correction step for distortion caused by refraction of light at the gas-liquid interface. Current methods for distortion correction based on ray tracing are limited to low external flow velocities. However, the ray-tracing method can be extended to arbitrarily deformed droplet shapes if the instantaneous three-dimensional droplet interface is availble. In the present work, a previously introduced method for the image-based reconstruction of gas-liquid interfaces by means of deep learning is adapted to determine the instantaneous interface of adhering droplets in external shear flows. In this regard, a purposefully developed optical measurement technique based on the shadowgraphy method is employed that encodes additional three-dimensional (3D) information of the interface in the images via glare points from lateral light sources. On the basis of the images recorded in the experiments, the volumetric shape of the droplet is reconstructed by a neural network that was trained on the spatio-temporal dynamics of the gas-liquid interface from a synthetic dataset obtained by numerical simulation. The results for experiments with adhering droplets at different velocities of external flow demonstrate that the combination of the learned droplet geometry with the depth encoding through the glare points facilitates a robust and flexible reconstruction. The proposed method reconstructs the instantaneous three-dimensional interface of adhering droplets at both high resolution and spatial accuracy and thereby enables the distortion correction of PIV measurements at high external flow velocities.


---
# Combining Physics and Mathematics Learning: A Taylor Series Analysis of an Oscillating Magnetic Field

## 结合物理和数学学习: 振荡磁场的泰勒级数分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03599

**Authors:** Santiago Ortuno-Molina, Adrian Garmendia-Martinez, Pedro Fernandez-de-Cordoba, Juan C. Castro-Palacio, Juan A. Monsoriu, Franciso M. Munoz-Perez

arXiv:2501.03599v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In this work, we present a simple and low-cost experiment designed to study the oscillations of the magnetic field created by a cylindrical magnet under two different conditions: far and short distances from the magnetic sensor. A Taylor series expansion of the magnetic field function has been done to study the convergence of the polynomial series to the real field in both situations. To carry out the experiment, a small cylindrical magnet has been attached to an oscillating and well-known spring-mass system. The resulting oscillating magnetic field has been registered with the smartphone by using the magnetometer sensor. A very good agreement has been obtained between the theoretical model for the magnetic field and the experimental data collected with the sensor located near and far from a cylindrical magnet and along its longitudinal axis.


---
# Benchmarking seismic phase associators: Insights from synthetic scenarios

## 对地震相位关联者进行基准测试: 来自合成场景的见解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03621

**Authors:** Jorge Puente, Christian Sippl, Jannes M\"unchmeyer, Ian W. McBrearty

arXiv:2501.03621v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Reliable seismicity catalogs are essential for seismology. Following phase picking, phase association groups arrivals into sets with consistent origins (i.e., events), determines event counts, and identifies outlier picks. To handle the substantial increase in the quantity of seismic phase picks from improved picking methods and larger deployments, several novel phase associators have recently been proposed. This study presents a detailed benchmark analysis of five seismic phase associators, including classical and machine learning-based approaches: PhaseLink, REAL, GaMMA, GENIE, and PyOcto. We use synthetic datasets mimicking real seismicity characteristics in crustal and subduction zone scenarios. We evaluate performance for different conditions, including low- and high-noise environments, out-of-network events, very high event rates, and variable station density. The results reveal notable differences in precision, recall, and computational efficiency. GENIE and PyOcto demonstrate robust performance, with almost perfect performance for most scenarios. Only for the most challenging conditions with high noise levels and event rates, performance drops but still maintains F1 scores above 0.8. PhaseLink's performance declines with noise and event density, particularly in subduction zones, dropping to near zero in the most complex cases. GaMMA outperforms PhaseLink but struggles with accuracy and scalability in high-noise, high-density scenarios. REAL performs reasonably but loses recall under extreme conditions. PyOcto and PhaseLink show the quickest runtimes for smaller-scale datasets, while REAL and GENIE are more than an order of magnitude slower for these cases. At the highest pick rates, GENIE's runtime disadvantage diminishes, matching PyOcto and scaling effectively. Our results can guide practitioners compiling seismicity catalogs and developers designing novel associators.


---
# Predicting the dynamics of a gas pocket during breaking wave impacts using machine learning

## 使用机器学习预测破碎波冲击过程中气穴的动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03641

**Authors:** Rodrigo Ezeta, Bulent D\"uz

arXiv:2501.03641v2 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We investigate the feasibility and accuracy of a machine learning model to predict the dynamics of a gas pocket that is formed when a breaking wave impacts on a solid wall. The proposed ML model is based on the convolutional long short-term memory structure and is trained with experimental data. In particular, it takes as input two high-speed camera snapshots before impact and produces as output six scalars that describe the dynamics of the gas pocket. The experiments are performed in a wave flume, where we use solitons -- in combination with a bathymetry profile -- to generate wave breaking close to a solid wall which is instrumented with dynamic pressure sensors. By varying the water depth $h_\ell$ and the parameter $\alpha = A/h_\ell$, where $A$ is the soliton wave amplitude, we are able to generate a family of unique breaking waves with different gas pocket sizes and wave kinematics. In this so-called phase space of wave generation ($h_\ell$, $\alpha$), we perform experiments on 67 different wave states that form our dataset. Experimentally, we find that the frequency of oscillation of the gas pocket can be attributed to the initial volume of gas plus a geometric correction and that the maximum and minimum pressures are qualitatively well captured by the one-dimensional Bagnold model. In terms of the ML model, we compare its performance to the experimental data and find that the model quantitatively reproduces the trends found in the experiments -- in particular for the maximum and minimum pressure in the gas pocket and the frequency of oscillation.


---
# Inverse Design of Optimal Stern Shape with Convolutional Neural Network-based Pressure Distribution

## 基于卷积神经网络的压力分布最优船尾形状反设计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03286

**Authors:** Sang-jin Oh, Ju Young Kang, Kyungryeong Pak, Heejung Kim, Sung-chul Shin

arXiv:2501.03286v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Hull form designing is an iterative process wherein the performance of the hull form needs to be checked via computational fluid dynamics calculations or model experiments. The stern shape has to undergo a process wherein the hull form variations from the pressure distribution analysis results are repeated until the resistance and propulsion efficiency meet the design requirements. In this study, the designer designed a pressure distribution that meets the design requirements; this paper proposes an inverse design algorithm that estimates the stern shape using deep learning. A convolutional neural network was used to extract the features of the pressure distribution expressed as a contour, whereas a multi-task learning model was used to estimate various sections of the stern shape. We estimated the stern shape indirectly by estimating the control point of the B-spline and comparing the actual and converted offsets for each section; the performance was verified, and an inverse design is proposed herein


---
# Method of data forward generation with partial differential equations for machine learning modeling in fluid mechanics

## 用于流体力学机器学习建模的偏微分方程数据正向生成方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03300

**Authors:** Ruilin Chen, Xiaowei Jin, Nikolaus A. Adams, Hui Li

arXiv:2501.03300v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Artificial intelligence (AI) for fluid mechanics has become attractive topic. High-fidelity data is one of most critical issues for the successful applications of AI in fluid mechanics, however, it is expensively obtained or even inaccessible. This study proposes a high-efficient data forward generation method from the partial differential equations (PDEs). Specifically, the solutions of the PDEs are first generated either following a random field (e.g. Gaussian random field, GRF, computational complexity O(NlogN), N is the number of spatial points) or physical laws (e.g. a kind of spectra, computational complexity O(NM), M is the number of modes), then the source terms, boundary conditions and initial conditions are computed to satisfy PDEs. Thus, the data pairs of source terms, boundary conditions and initial conditions with corresponding solutions of PDEs can be constructed. A Poisson neural network (Poisson-NN) embedded in projection method and a wavelet transform convolutional neuro network (WTCNN) embedded in multigrid numerical simulation for solving incompressible Navier-Stokes equations is respectively proposed. The feasibility of generated data for training Poisson-NN and WTCNN is validated. The results indicate that even without any DNS data, the generated data can train these two models with excellent generalization and accuracy. The data following physical laws can significantly improve the convergence rate, generalization and accuracy than that generated following GRF.


---
# Low-Order Flow Reconstruction and Uncertainty Quantification in Disturbed Aerodynamics Using Sparse Pressure Measurements

## 使用稀疏压力测量在受干扰的空气动力学中进行低阶流重建和不确定性量化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03406

**Authors:** Hanieh Mousavi, Jeff D. Eldredge

arXiv:2501.03406v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel machine-learning framework for reconstructing low-order gust-encounter flow field and lift coefficients from sparse, noisy surface pressure measurements. Our study thoroughly investigates the time-varying response of sensors to gust-airfoil interactions, uncovering valuable insights into optimal sensor placement. To address uncertainties in deep learning predictions, we implement probabilistic regression strategies to model both epistemic and aleatoric uncertainties. Epistemic uncertainty, reflecting the model's confidence in its predictions, is modeled using Monte Carlo dropout, as an approximation to the variational inference in the Bayesian framework, treating the neural network as a stochastic entity. On the other hand, aleatoric uncertainty, arising from noisy input measurements, is captured via learned statistical parameters, which propagates measurement noise through the network into the final predictions. Our results showcase the efficacy of this dual uncertainty quantification strategy in accurately predicting aerodynamic behavior under extreme conditions while maintaining computational efficiency, underscoring its potential to improve online sensor-based flow estimation in real-world applications.


---
# Simulating Pattern Recognition Using Non-volatile Synapses: MRAM, Ferroelectrics and Magnetic Skyrmions

## 使用非易失性突触模拟模式识别: MRAM，铁电体和磁性skyrmim

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03450

**Authors:** Luis Sosa, Minhyeok Wi, Miguel Barrera, Imran Nasrullah, Yingying Wu

arXiv:2501.03450v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: This project explores the use of non-volatile synapses in neuromorphic computing for pattern recognition tasks through a comprehensive simulation-based approach. The main approach is through spintronic synapses, which leverage the electron's spin properties to achieve efficient data processing and storage. This offers a promising alternative to traditional electronic synapses which require constant power recharge to prevent data leakage. The goal is to develop and simulate a neural network model that incorporates spintronic synapses, examining their potential to perform complex pattern recognition tasks such as image and sound classification. By building a simulation environment, we will replicate various models, including spin transfer torque based MRAM, voltage controlled magnetic anisotropy based MRAM, ferroelectric field effect transistors, and skyrmion based nanotrack for synaptic devices, to evaluate their performance and compare results across different non-volatile implementations. The findings will highlight the effectiveness of spintronic synapses in creating low-power, high-performance neuromorphic hardware, providing valuable insights into their application for future energy-efficient artificial intelligence systems.


---
# A Value Mapping Virtual Staining Framework for Large-scale Histological Imaging

## 用于大规模组织学成像的价值映射虚拟染色框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03592

**Authors:** Junjia Wang, Bo Xiong, You Zhou, Xun Cao, Zhan Ma

arXiv:2501.03592v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The emergence of virtual staining technology provides a rapid and efficient alternative for researchers in tissue pathology. It enables the utilization of unlabeled microscopic samples to generate virtual replicas of chemically stained histological slices, or facilitate the transformation of one staining type into another. The remarkable performance of generative networks, such as CycleGAN, offers an unsupervised learning approach for virtual coloring, overcoming the limitations of high-quality paired data required in supervised learning. Nevertheless, large-scale color transformation necessitates processing large field-of-view images in patches, often resulting in significant boundary inconsistency and artifacts. Additionally, the transformation between different colorized modalities typically needs further efforts to modify loss functions and tune hyperparameters for independent training of networks. In this study, we introduce a general virtual staining framework that is adaptable to various conditions. We propose a loss function based on the value mapping constraint to ensure the accuracy of virtual coloring between different pathological modalities, termed the Value Mapping Generative Adversarial Network (VM-GAN). Meanwhile, we present a confidence-based tiling method to address the challenge of boundary inconsistency arising from patch-wise processing. Experimental results on diverse data with varying staining protocols demonstrate that our method achieves superior quantitative indicators and improved visual perception.


---
# Run-and-tumble chemotaxis using reinforcement learning

## 使用强化学习的奔跑和翻滚趋化性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03687

**Authors:** Ramesh Pramanik, Shradha Mishra, Sakuntala Chatterjee

arXiv:2501.03687v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Bacterial cells use run-and-tumble motion to climb up attractant concentration gradient in their environment. By extending the uphill runs and shortening the downhill runs the cells migrate towards the higher attractant zones. Motivated by this, we formulate a reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm where an agent moves in one dimension in the presence of an attractant gradient. The agent can perform two actions: either persistent motion in the same direction or reversal of direction. We assign costs for these actions based on the recent history of the agent's trajectory. We ask the question: which RL strategy works best in different types of attractant environment. We quantify efficiency of the RL strategy by the ability of the agent (a) to localize in the favorable zones after large times, and (b) to learn about its complete environment. Depending on the attractant profile and the initial condition, we find an optimum balance is needed between exploration and exploitation to ensure the most efficient performance.


---
# Supervised and unsupervised learning the many-body critical phase, phase transitions and critical exponents in disordered quantum systems

## 监督和无监督学习无序量子系统中的多体临界相位，相变和临界指数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03981

**Authors:** Aamna Ahmed, Nilanjan Roy

arXiv:2501.03981v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In this work, we begin by questioning the existence of a new kind of nonergodic extended phase, namely, the many-body critical (MBC) phase in finite systems of an interacting quasiperiodic system. We find that this phase can be separately detected from the other phases such as the many-body ergodic (ME) and many-body localized (MBL) phases in the model through supervised neural networks made for both binary and multi-class classification tasks, utilizing, rather un-preprocessed, eigenvalue spacings and eigenvector probability densities as input features. Moreover, the output of our trained neural networks can also indicate the critical points separating ME, MBC and MBL phases, which are consistent with the same obtained from other conventional methods. We also employ unsupervised learning techniques, particularly principal component analysis (PCA) of eigenvector probability densities to investigate how this framework, without any training, captures the, rather unknown, many-body phases (ME, MBL and MBC) and single particle phases (delocalized, localized and critical) of the interacting and non-interacting systems, respectively. Our findings reveal that PCA entropy serves as an effective indicator (order parameter) for detecting phase transitions in the single-particle systems. Moreover, this method proves applicable to many-body systems when the data undergoes a suitable pre-processing. Interestingly, when it comes to extraction of critical (correlation length) exponents through a finite size-scaling, we find that for single-particle systems, scaling collapse of neural network outputs is obtained using components of inverse participation ratio (IPR) as input data. Remarkably, we observe identical critical exponents as obtained from scaling collapse of the IPR directly for different single-particle phase transitions.


---
# Spatio-spectral optical fission in time-varying subwavelength layers

## 时变亚波长层中的空间光谱光学裂变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04917

**Authors:** Wallace Jaffray, Sven Stengel, Fabio Biancalana, Colton Bradley Fruhling, Mustafa Ozlu, Alexandra Boltasseva, Vladimir M. Shalaev, Marcello Ferrera

arXiv:2406.04917v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Transparent conducting oxides are highly doped semiconductors that exhibit favourable characteristics when compared to metals, including reduced material losses, tuneable electronic and optical properties, and enhanced damage thresholds. Recently, the photonic community has renewed its attention towards these materials, recognizing their remarkable nonlinear optical properties in the near-infrared spectrum, a feature previously overlooked despite their long-standing application in photovoltaics and touchscreens. The exceptionally large and ultra-fast change of the refractive index, which can be optically induced in these compounds, extends beyond the boundaries of conventional perturbative analysis and makes this class of materials the closest approximation to a time-varying system, and a unique playground for studying a variety of novel phenomena within the domain of photon acceleration. Here we report the spatio-spectral fission of an ultra-fast pulse trespassing a thin film of aluminium zinc oxide with a non-stationary refractive index. By applying phase conservation to this time-varying layer, our model can account for both space and time refraction and explain in quantitative terms, the spatial separation of both the spectrum and energy. Our findings represent an example of extreme nonlinear phenomena on subwavelength propagation distances and shed light on the nature of several nonlinear effects recently reported not accounting for the full optical field distribution. Our work also provides new important insights into transparent conducting oxides transient optical properties which are critical for the ongoing research in photonic time crystals, on-chip generation of nonclassical states of light, integrated optical neural networks as well as ultra-fast beam steering and frequency division multiplexing


---
# Machine-learning identified nitride quantum wells for enhanced red emission

## 用于增强红光发射的机器学习识别氮化物量子阱

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23591

**Authors:** Nick Pant, Rob Armitage, Emmanouil Kioupakis

arXiv:2410.23591v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: III-nitride heterostructures are critical for achieving polychromatic micron-scale pixels in extended-reality and biomedical applications, however red emission remains challenging. Here, we address this challenge by systematically exploring their design space with machine learning. We surprisingly uncover that larger polarization fields globally correlate with higher wave-function overlaps for red emission. The key is the quantum-confined Stark effect, which enables a reduction in well width while avoiding the associated increase in In composition. We outline strategies for engineering polarization fields through the tuning of composition, strain, and interlayer and quantum-barrier thicknesses. Without polarization fields, efficient red emission would not be possible in nitride LEDs given the current challenges in nitride epitaxy. Our results show how polarization can improve light emission from polar semiconductor heterostructures.


---
# Deep Overlapping Community Search via Subspace Embedding

## 基于子空间嵌入的深度重叠社区搜索

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14692

**Authors:** Qing Sima, Jianke Yu, Xiaoyang Wang, Wenjie Zhang, Ying Zhang, Xuemin Lin

arXiv:2404.14692v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Overlapping Community Search (OCS) identifies nodes that interact with multiple communities based on a specified query. Existing community search approaches fall into two categories: algorithm-based models and Machine Learning-based (ML) models. Despite the long-standing focus on this topic within the database domain, current solutions face two major limitations: 1) Both approaches fail to address personalized user requirements in OCS, consistently returning the same set of nodes for a given query regardless of user differences. 2) Existing ML-based CS models suffer from severe training efficiency issues. In this paper, we formally redefine the problem of OCS. By analyzing the gaps in both types of approaches, we then propose a general solution for OCS named Sparse Subspace Filter (SSF), which can extend any ML-based CS model to enable personalized search in overlapping structures. To overcome the efficiency issue in the current models, we introduce Simplified Multi-hop Attention Networks (SMN), a lightweight yet effective community search model with larger receptive fields. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first ML-based study of overlapping community search. Extensive experiments validate the superior performance of SMN within the SSF pipeline, achieving a 13.73% improvement in F1-Score and up to 3 orders of magnitude acceleration in model efficiency compared to state-of-the-art approaches.


---
# Recommendations for Comprehensive and Independent Evaluation of Machine Learning-Based Earth System Models

## 对基于机器学习的地球系统模型进行全面和独立评估的建议

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19882

**Authors:** Paul A. Ullrich, Elizabeth A. Barnes, William D. Collins, Katherine Dagon, Shiheng Duan, Joshua Elms, Jiwoo Lee, L. Ruby Leung, Dan Lu, Maria J. Molina, Travis A. O'Brien, Finn O. Rebassoo

arXiv:2410.19882v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Machine learning (ML) is a revolutionary technology with demonstrable applications across multiple disciplines. Within the Earth science community, ML has been most visible for weather forecasting, producing forecasts that rival modern physics-based models. Given the importance of deepening our understanding and improving predictions of the Earth system on all time scales, efforts are now underway to develop forecasting models into Earth-system models (ESMs), capable of representing all components of the coupled Earth system (or their aggregated behavior) and their response to external changes. Modeling the Earth system is a much more difficult problem than weather forecasting, not least because the model must represent the alternate (e.g., future) coupled states of the system for which there are no historical observations. Given that the physical principles that enable predictions about the response of the Earth system are often not explicitly coded in these ML-based models, demonstrating the credibility of ML-based ESMs thus requires us to build evidence of their consistency with the physical system. To this end, this paper puts forward five recommendations to enhance comprehensive, standardized, and independent evaluation of ML-based ESMs to strengthen their credibility and promote their wider use.


---
# Enhancing creep resistance in refractory high-entropy alloys: role of grain size and local chemical order

## 提高耐火高熵合金的抗蠕变性: 晶粒尺寸和局部化学顺序的作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00588

**Authors:** Saifuddin Zafar, Mashaekh Tausif Ehsan, Sourav Das Suvro, Mahmudul Islam, Mohammad Nasim Hasan

arXiv:2412.00588v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Refractory high-entropy alloys (RHEAs) are a promising class of materials with potential applications in extreme environments, where the dominant failure mode is thermal creep. The design of these alloys, therefore, requires an understanding of how their microstructure and local chemical distribution affect creep behavior. In this study, we performed high-fidelity atomistic simulations using machine-learning interatomic potentials to explore the creep deformation of MoNbTaW RHEAs under a wide range of stress and temperature conditions. We parametrized grain size and local chemical order (LCO) to investigate the effects of these two important design variables, which are controllable during the alloy fabrication process. Our investigation revealed that resistance to creep deformation is enhanced by larger grain sizes and higher levels of LCO. This study highlights the importance of utilizing LCO in conjunction with other microstructural properties when designing RHEAs for extreme environment applications.


---
# High-Rank Irreducible Cartesian Tensor Decomposition and Bases of Equivariant Spaces

## 高阶不可约笛卡尔张量分解和等变空间的基

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18263

**Authors:** Shihao Shao, Yikang Li, Zhouchen Lin, Qinghua Cui

arXiv:2412.18263v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Irreducible Cartesian tensors (ICTs) play a crucial role in the design of equivariant graph neural networks, as well as in theoretical chemistry and chemical physics. Meanwhile, the design space of available linear operations on tensors that preserve symmetry presents a significant challenge. The ICT decomposition and a basis of this equivariant space are difficult to obtain for high-order tensors. After decades of research, Bonvicini (2024) recently achieves an explicit ICT decomposition for $n=5$ with factorial time/space complexity. This work, for the first time, obtains decomposition matrices for ICTs up to rank $n=9$ with reduced and affordable complexity, by constructing what we call path matrices. The path matrices are obtained via performing chain-like contraction with Clebsch-Gordan matrices following the parentage scheme. We prove and leverage that the concatenation of path matrices is an orthonormal change-of-basis matrix between the Cartesian tensor product space and the spherical direct sum spaces. Furthermore, we identify a complete orthogonal basis for the equivariant space, rather than a spanning set (Pearce-Crump, 2023b), through this path matrices technique. We further extend our result to the arbitrary tensor product and direct sum spaces, enabling free design between different spaces while keeping symmetry. The Python code is available at https://github.com/ShihaoShao-GH/ICT-decomposition-and-equivariant-bases, where the $n=6,\dots,9$ ICT decomposition matrices are obtained in 1s, 3s, 11s, and 4m32s on on 28-cores Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6330 CPU @ 2.00GHz, respectively.


---
# Oxide’s Acidity Prediction in Smith Scale Using a Simple Linear Model

## 使用简单的线性模型预测史密斯尺度中的氧化物酸度

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-kq9wl-v3?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Kai, Bao

A numeric scale of acidity and basicity, developed by D.W. Smith, allows for quantitative comparison between different oxides and has been useful in explaining various oxide behaviors. In this study, we aim to predict oxide acidity on the Smith scale using a machine learning approach. Previous attempts using a linear fit based on electronegativity showed a clear trend but lacked precision due to the simplicity of the model and the multi-valent nature of metal oxides. We propose a multi-parameter model incorporating four features: electronegativity, metal valence (raised to the power of 1/3), ionic radius, and dipole polarizability. A simple linear neural network outperformed a more complex 1D convolutional neural network, demonstrating superior accuracy and interpretability. Our model significantly improved predictive performance as compared to the single-parameter model. These results were validated through predictions of testing data and unknown oxides acidity were predicted in this work.


---
# Wiggle150: Benchmarking Density Functionals And Neural Network Potentials On Highly Strained Conformers

## Wiggle150: 在高度应变的构象体上对密度函数和神经网络潜力进行基准测试

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-4mbsk?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Wyatt, Simmons

Accurate benchmarks are key to assessing the accuracy and robustness of computational methods, yet most available benchmark sets focus on equilibrium geometries, limiting their utility for applications involving non-equilibrium structures such as ab initio molecular dynamics and automated reaction-path exploration. To address this gap, we introduce Wiggle150, a benchmark comprising 150 highly strained conformations of adenosine, benzylpenicillin, and efavirenz. These geometries—generated via metadynamics and scored using DLPNO-CCSD(T)/CBS reference energies—exhibit substantially larger deviations in bond lengths, angles, dihedrals, and relative energies than other conformer benchmarks. We evaluate a diverse array of computational methods, including density-functional theory, composite quantum chemical methods, semiempirical models, neural network potentials, and force fields, on predicting relative energies for this challenging benchmark set. The results highlight multiple methods along the speed–accuracy Pareto frontier and identify AIMNet2 as particularly robust among the NNPs surveyed. We anticipate that Wiggle150 will be used to validate computational protocols involving non-equilibrium systems and guide the development of new density functionals and neural network potentials.


---
# Large-scale Atomistic Simulations of Lithium Diffusion in a Graphite Anode with a Machine Learning Force Field

## 具有机器学习力场的石墨阳极中锂扩散的大规模原子模拟

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-m2g7s?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Karl, Leswing

Graphite is the anode material in the vast majority of current commercial lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) due to its excellent electrochemical performance and abundant reserves. However, the development of high-performance LIBs still faces technical bottlenecks including limited rate capability, partly because of the slow Li diffusion in the graphite anode. Experimental measurements of Li diffusivity versus Li contents in graphite show both monotonic and non-monotonic trends with reported Li diffusivity spanning orders of magnitude. Comprehensive insights of the Li diffusion process and its bottleneck in graphite are essential to develop the next-generation LIBs. In this work, we developed a machine learning force field (MLFF) to investigate the Li diffusion in the LixC6 system. We benchmark density functional theory (DFT) functionals and dispersion corrections versus experiment, finding nonlocal van der Waals functional rVV10 shows a good agreement with experimental results in terms of the structural, energetic, and electrochemical properties of the LixC6 system. We then train a MLFF based on our recently developed charge recursive neural network (QRNN) architecture to simulate Li diffusion in graphite at different Li contents, stage structures and temperatures. Our Li diffusion analysis demonstrates a phase-transition dependent Li diffusion in the LixC6 system, which supports the experimental measurements of a non-monotonic relation between Li diffusivity and Li content. This work demonstrates the capability of our QRNN model in carrying out large scale molecular dynamics simulations to identify the Li diffusion bottleneck in a graphite anode.


---
# Beyond Numerical Hessians: Higher-Order Derivatives for Machine Learning Interatomic Potentials via Automatic Differentiation

## 超越数值hessian: 通过自动微分用于机器学习原子间势的高阶导数

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-p97c2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Karsten, Reuter

The development of machine learning interatomic potentials (MLIPs) has revolutionized computational chemistry by enhancing the accuracy of empirical force fields while retaining a large computational speed-up compared to first-principles calculations. Despite these advancements, the calculation of Hessian matrices for large systems remains challenging, in particular, because analytical second-order derivatives are often not implemented. This necessitates the use of computationally expensive finite-difference methods, which can furthermore display low precision in some cases. Automatic differentiation (AD) offers a promising alternative to reduce this computational effort and make the calculation of Hessian matrices more efficient and accurate. Here, we present the implementation of AD-based second-order derivatives for the popular MACE equivariant graph neural network architecture. The benefits of this method are showcased via a high-throughput prediction of heat capacities of porous materials with the MACE-MP-0 foundation model. This is essential for precisely describing gas adsorption in these systems and was previously only possible with bespoke ML models or expensive first-principles calculations. We find that the availability of foundation models and accurate analytical Hessian matrices offers comparable accuracy to bespoke ML models in a zero-shot manner, and additionally allows investigating finite size and rounding errors in the first-principles data.


---
# Leveraging High-throughput Molecular Simulations and Machine Learning for the Design of Chemical Mixtures

## 利用高通量分子模拟和机器学习设计化学混合物

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-4lff6-v4?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Mathew D., Halls

Mixtures of chemical ingredients, such as formulations, are ubiquitous in materials science, but optimizing their properties remains challenging due to the vast design space. Computational approaches offer a promising solution to traverse this space while minimizing trial-and-error experimentation. Using high-throughput classical molecular dynamics simulations, we generated a comprehensive dataset of over 30,000 solvent mixtures to evaluate three machine learning approaches that connect molecular structure and composition to property: formulation descriptor aggregation (FDA), formulation graph (FG), and Set2Set-based method (FDS2S). Our results demonstrate that our new FDS2S approach outperforms other approaches in predicting simulation-derived properties. Formulation-property relationships can reveal important substructures and identify promising formulations at least two to three times faster than random guessing. The models show robust transferability to experimental datasets, accurately predicting properties across energy, pharmaceutical, and petroleum applications. Our research demonstrates the utility of high-throughput simulations and machine learning tools to design formulations with promising properties.


---
# Cultivating Success: Mentoring Experiences in the Honors Program (Chemistry) for Health Sciences at Community College

## 培养成功: 社区学院健康科学荣誉计划 (化学) 的指导经验

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-q68w5?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Olena, Novobranova

The pursuit of academic excellence is often marked by collaborative endeavors and supportive relationships. This study delves into the mentoring experiences within the Honors Program for Chemistry for Health Sciences at Community College. The research focused on students who completed classes in preparatory chemistry and Introductory General, Organic, and Biochemistry. Through qualitative exploration, this article unveils the multifaceted role of mentors and their impact on the academic and personal growth of participating students.
The study used a thorough approach involving talking to participants, watching what happens, and studying academic results. What I discovered shows that being mentored in the Honors Program truly helps students succeed. It creates a feeling of belonging, provides direction, and helps individuals develop skills. I looked at how mentoring plays out in both basic and more advanced chemistry classes, showing how it goes beyond just regular academic stuff.
I also talked about the difficulties students face while being mentored, which gave me ideas on how to make things better. In the end, I suggest some ways teachers, school leaders, and mentors can improve Honors Programs even more. I discussed the opportunity to create special support programs, particularly in chemical education, to make the learning experience more fulfilling. 
This research helped me, as a chemistry instructor, to better understand the problems that did not allow me to create productive collaboration between mentors and students. This study provides a nuanced perspective on how mentorship shapes the educational journeys of students in the dynamic field of chemical education. The lessons learned from this study will help me to find new strategies for cultivating success within the Honors program.


---
# Risk Factors for and a Preliminary Prediction Model of Vascular Calcification in Patients Beginning Hemodialysis

## 血液透析患者血管钙化的危险因素及初步预测模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5762835/latest

Background and hypothesis. Vascular calcification (VC) is an important risk factor for cardiovascular events in patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (MHD); however, there is limited data on VC-related factors in patients beginning hemodialysis. Thus, this study aimed to determine the risk factors of VC and to establish a prediction model for evaluating VC progression in new patients undergoing hemodialysis.Methods. This study selected 86 patients who initiated in-center MHD between March 2021 and November 2022. Demographic characteristics, medical history, and laboratory data were collected. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) was assessed based on the Agatston vascular score determined via computed tomography. Serum levels of the VC inhibitors fetuin-A was quantified via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Univariate and multivariate regression analyses were conducted to determine the risk factors for VC, and a neural network-based approach was adopted to construct a VC prediction model.Results. The average age of the patients was 56.74&amp;thinsp;&amp;plusmn;&amp;thinsp;12.79 years, and 65.1% were male. CAC was observed in 72.09% of patients. Age, body mass index, diabetes, the comorbidity index, and the number of coronary artery branches with calcification were positively correlated with the CAC score, whereas plasma fetuin-A levels was negatively correlated. The multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that age[odds ratio (OR) 1.07, 95%CI: 1.00&amp;ndash;1.14], the comorbidity index[OR 1.72, 95%CI: 1.16&amp;ndash;2.57], diabetes[OR 3.97, 95%CI: 1.16&amp;ndash;13.58] were independent risk factors for CAC; these factors were used to establish a simple scoring model to predict VC risk.Conclusion. Age, the comorbidity index, diabetes were identified as independent risk factors for CAC in patients beginning hemodialysis, and the new VC prediction model based on these factors may help identify VC in patients undergoing MHD, facilitating clinical interventions.


---
# Patient specific seizure prediction for time intervals using TQWT and deep learning

## 使用TQWT和深度学习对患者特定时间间隔的癫痫发作预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5714799/latest

Seizures are sudden activations of part or all of the brain, which are the primary symptoms of epilepsy. Epileptic seizures are characterized by their sudden and unpredictable nature and pose significant risks to patients&amp;rsquo; daily lives. In many patients with epilepsy, specific symptoms are observed for a short period before a seizure occurs. Research is ongoing to develop technology that can predict seizures by detecting these symptomatic signals. In this paper, we used the CHB-MIT database, which contains more than 150 seizures in approximately 1,000 hours of EEG data collected from 23 children with intractable seizures. Tunable Q-factor Wavelet Transform (TQWT), a specific type of wavelet transform, was applied to the data to predict seizures by identifying inter-ictal and pre-ictal states using a relatively simple deep learning classifier. Each classification was performed individually for each patient, and seizure prediction during a specific period was achieved using k-fold cross-validation, a technique commonly employed in deep learning. By combining the results, the period with the highest probability of seizure occurrence for each patient was designated the specific warning period. Ultimately, it was possible to predict seizures 15 minutes in advance, achieving an average sensitivity of 0.97, an F1 score of 0.90, and a false discovery rate (FDR) of 0.13 for all patients. Additionally, a specific warning period was established for each patient, ranging from a minimum of 2.5 minutes to a maximum of 15 minutes. .


---
# Benchmarking Machine Learning Models for Cell Type Annotation in Single-Cell vs Single-Nucleus RNA-Seq Data

## 单细胞与单核rna-seq数据中细胞类型注释的基准机器学习模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5754289/latest

Background Machine learning (ML) models can automate cell annotation and reduce human bias. However, it remains unclear which ML model best suits the characteristics of single-cell RNA sequencing data and whether a trained model can be applied to transcriptomes collected from nuclei rather than whole cells. This study evaluates the performance of eight selected ML models for cell annotation in single-cell (scRNA-seq) vs single-nucleus (snRNA-seq) RNA sequencing datasets, focusing on their ability to generalize across datasets with varying cell populations and transcriptome isolation techniques.Results In the first part, we use two publicly available scRNA-seq datasets of Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMC3K and PBMC10K) to assess the performance of each ML model in cell type classification within and across datasets. XGBoost achieved high accuracy (95.4%-95.8%), precision, and F1-scores, outperforming simpler models like Logistic Regression and Naive Bayes. Ensemble methods like XGBoost and Random Forest demonstrated strong precision and recall. Elastic Net demonstrated nearly as good generalizability achieving high accuracy (94.7%-95.1%). In the second part, we investigated the impact of transcriptome isolation techniques (single-cell vs. single-nucleus RNA-seq) on ML model performance using the publicly available cardiomyocyte differentiation datasets (GSE129096). Although models like XGBoost and Elastic Net excelled in single-cell data (accuracy and F1-scores&amp;thinsp;&amp;gt;&amp;thinsp;95%), performance declined notably in single-nucleus data, suggesting inherent transcriptomic differences can impact ML model classification capacity. Notably, all models struggled with classifying intermediate-stage cells, highlighting challenges in distinguishing transitional cell populations, such as cardiac progenitors that retain stem cell markers while showing expression of differentiated cell markers.Conclusion ML models can be trained and applied to classify cells origination from both scRNA-seq and snRNA-seq.&amp;nbsp;Ensemble tree-based models and penalized elastic regression demonstrated superior performance and generalizability across diverse datasets, emphasizing the importance of model selection for robust cell annotation. These findings underscore the need for tailored computational approaches when working with heterogeneous transcriptome data.


---
# Leveraging Survival Analysis and Machine Learning for Accurate Prediction of Breast Cancer Recurrence and Metastasis

## 利用生存分析和机器学习准确预测乳腺癌复发和转移

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5059228/latest

Breast cancer, with its high incidence and mortality globally, necessitates early prediction of local and distant recurrence toimprove treatment outcomes. This study develops and validates predictive models for breast cancer recurrence and metastasisusing Recurrence-Free Survival Analysis (RFS) and machine learning techniques. We merged datasets from the MolecularTaxonomy of Breast Cancer International Consortium (METABRIC), Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSK), DukeUniversity, and the SEER program, creating a comprehensive dataset of 190,789 rows and 23 columns. Our methodologyutilized three predictive strategies: assessing recurrence risk, differentiating local from distant recurrences, and identifyingpotential metastatic sites. Key prognostic factors were identified through survival analysis. LightGBM, XGBoost, and RandomForest models were employed and validated against data from the Baheya Foundation. The models demonstrated strongperformance; the survival analysis achieved a C-index of 0.837. The LightGBM model reached an AUC of 92% in predictingrecurrences, while XGBoost and Random Forest models distinguished recurrence types with up to 86% accuracy and predictedspecific metastatic sites effectively. This study highlights the significant potential of machine learning in advancing breastcancer management and sets a new benchmark for predictive analytics. Future research will integrate genetic data to furtherenhance these models.


---
# Teaching Quality in STEM Education: Differences Between In- and Out-of-School Contexts From the Perspective of Gifted Students

## STEM教育中的教学质量: 从资优学生的角度看校内和校外环境的差异

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5743180/latest

Background Teaching quality plays a critical role in effective STEM education, and improving teaching quality is often considered the most promising approach for boosting STEM achievement. However, teachers frequently encounter substantial heterogeneity in students&amp;rsquo; aptitudes, interests, and needs, thus rendering it challenging to maintain high-quality instruction for all learners. Consequently, it has been argued that additional out-of-school programs that cater to a more homogeneous student group might better meet students' needs, resulting in higher teaching quality. At the same time, by attending high-quality out-of-school programs, students&amp;rsquo; evaluations of their regular school lessons might be negatively affected via comparison or reference effects. However, there is a lack of studies on teaching quality in regular classes versus out-of-school programs.Method The present study used data from a specialized out-of-school STEM enrichment program for highly gifted students. We compared the teaching quality in regular school classes and the enrichment program as reported by a total of 67 gifted students (IQ M&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;132.4; SD&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;9.4) with the perceived teaching quality in regular classes reported by their peers (N&amp;thinsp;=&amp;thinsp;277) who were nominated for the program but were not enrolled because they scored lower on a cognitive ability test. More specifically, we compared the children&amp;rsquo;s perceptions of the motivational climate of both contexts and the teaching quality in students' regular lessons (i.e., math classes) and the STEM enrichment program.Results Results showed that students participating in the out-of-school STEM enrichment program reported higher motivational climate and teaching quality in the enrichment program than in their regular (math) classes. At the same time, the perceptions of the motivational climate and teaching quality in the regular school setting of students who attended the enrichment program were similar to the perceptions of their peers who did not have access to the specialized enrichment program.Conclusion The findings indicate that the out-of-school STEM enrichment program we examined constitutes a valuable learning environment to meet gifted students' needs and enhance their learning experiences. We discuss the insights we gained from gifted education in the context of different educational settings and contribute to a better understanding of perceived differences in teaching quality.


---
# Deep analysis of classroom teaching behavior from the perspective of artificial intelligence: Centered on effective questioning models and exploration of "Four How" questions

## 人工智能视角下课堂教学行为的深度分析 -- 以有效提问模式与 “四个怎么” 问题探究为中心

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5677350/latest

Classroom questioning is a critical element of teaching, facilitating interaction between teachers and students.Effective questioning plays a pivotal role in enhancing students&amp;rsquo; cognitive abilities, sparking interest in learning, and supporting knowledge retention. This study analyzes recorded exemplary classroom videos using an intelligent classroom data analysis cloud platform, integrating an effective questioning model and the "Four How" theory. The analysis is based on five dimensions: teacher questioning type, student response method, student response type, teacher response attitude, and the "Four How" questions. The findings reveal that while teachers often respond positively to students, their questions tend to focus on "what" inquiries.Furthermore,students frequently provide mechanical or memory-based responses. In light of these findings,the study recommends optimizing question design to foster higher-order thinking, improving questioning techniques to enhance teacher-student interaction, strengthening student guidance for deeper engagement, and refining feedback to cultivate problem awareness. This research provides valuable data-driven insights into teaching behaviors and offers strategies for enhancing classroom teaching quality in schools.


---
# High-Accuracy De Novo Prediction for N- and O-linked Glycopeptides Across Multiple Fragmentation Techniques

## 通过多种片段化技术对N-和O-连接的糖肽进行高精度从头预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5709065/latest

N- and O-glycosylation, the most intricate post-translational modifications of proteins, is essential for regulating biological functions. Glycoproteomics faces substantial challenges, particularly in the analysis of O-glycans due to its diversity compared to N-glycans. Additionally, tandem mass spectrometry data patterns exhibit variability among different fragmentation methods, such as stepped collision energy higher-energy collisional dissociation (sceHCD) and electron transfer higher-energy collisional dissociation (EThcD). Existing algorithms often lack sensitivity and are limited to sceHCD fragmentation, restricting their practical application. To address these limitations, we introduce GlycopepECHO, the first deep-learning-based de novo glycopeptide algorithm that captures correlations between spectrum and glycopeptide fragmentation ions among N- and O-glycans. GlycopepECHO achieves over 92% glycan recall and around 95% glycan precision on N-glycan fragmented by both sceHCD and EThcD. It additionally allows O-glycan de novo sequencing benefits from zero-shot learning. GlycopepECHO expands the analytical capabilities of glycoproteomics, shedding light on the diverse roles of glycosylation.


---
# Next-Generation Intrusion Detection Systems: A Hybrid Machine Learning Framework for Intelligent Cyber Threat Neutralization

## 下一代入侵检测系统: 用于智能网络威胁中和的混合机器学习框架

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5762323/latest

In the rapidly evolving landscape of cybersecurity, network intrusion detection systems (NIDS) face significant challenges in effectively identifying and mitigating sophisticated cyber threats. In this research, we propose an innovative hybrid approach that combines signature-based detection, anomaly-based detection and&amp;ensp;LSTM model as a substantial solution to the limitations faced in existing intrusion detection methodologies. The hybrid&amp;ensp;intrusion detection system is a game changer in threat detection capabilities. The research addresses the inherent weaknesses of traditional single-method approaches by combining&amp;ensp;multiple detection methodologies. Signature-based detection works well for known threats but is ineffective against zero-day attacks, and&amp;ensp;anomaly-based detection produces high false positive rates. This innovative&amp;ensp;hybrid model utilizes machine learning as a smart filtering mechanism to fill these crucial voids. Extensive simulations and&amp;ensp;in depth statistical analysis show impressive performance gains. The system attained a true positive&amp;ensp;detection rate of 98% which is a significant improvement over previous methods whilst reducing the final false positive rates by approximately 70%. The performance metrics define the&amp;ensp;efficiency of the system with 98% detection accuracy, significant reduction in false positive rates and increased threat recognition at known and unknown attack surface. The proposed system integrates a variety of detection methods along with refined machine learning approaches to provide an overall intelligent and adaptive network security framework, making it a strong candidate for advanced intrusion detection&amp;ensp;systems.


---
# Comparative Analysis of ANN, RNN, and GRU for Credit Card Fraud Detection

## 用于信用卡欺诈检测的ANN、RNN和GRU的比较分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5772503/latest

The rapid rise of digital financial transactions has significantly increased the risk of credit card fraud, which poses substantial threats to financial institutions and consumers. This paper presents a comparison of three machine learning models&amp;mdash;Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN), and Gated Recurrent Units (GRU)&amp;mdash;for detecting fraudulent credit card transactions. The study evaluates the models using four key performance metrics: Sensitivity, Specificity, Accuracy, and Error Rate. The findings reveal that the GRU model outperforms both ANN and RNN, achieving an impressive accuracy of 99.9%. These results highlight the potential of GRU in developing robust and efficient credit card fraud detection systems.


---
# Effectiveness of interventions in teacher education: Synthesis of reviews (2010&ndash;2024)

## 教师教育干预措施的有效性: 综述综述 (2010-2024)

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5771808/latest

This paper offers an overview of current research on the effectiveness of interventions in teacher education. We synthesize 27 reviews published between 2010 and 2024, comprising 510 research publications of empirical intervention studies targeting pre-service and in-service teachers&amp;rsquo; professional learning. We applied a specific analysis category system to address five research questions concerning (1) theoretical foundations, (2) input and output of the intervention studies, (3) study design, (4) effect sizes, and (5) research gaps. Few reviews had developed their own theoretical framework, and justifications for the interventions&amp;rsquo; necessity were not always elaborated. Most assumed the existence of an effect chain&amp;mdash;namely, that the reviewed interventions help promote teacher variables (mainly competence facets), which are then positively reflected in teaching quality and students&amp;rsquo; learning gains. However, study variables typically indicate only segments of the effect chain while comprehensive operationalization of the total effect chain is rare. Interventions are typically organized as coursework, not necessarily connected to teaching practice or student learning. The interventions&amp;rsquo; targeted learning outcomes are heterogeneously operationalized. Basic design features appear typical for intervention studies in teacher education, whereas more challenging designs are less common. Self-report instruments appear more common than rigorous measurement approaches. Based on a subsample of 14 reviews reporting summarized effects sizes, we conducted a meta-meta-analysis that shows an overall significant moderate effect of interventions is observable. Differentiation shows stronger effects for proximal outcomes (e.g., change in teacher knowledge or instructional practice) than for student learning. The synthesis of moderator effects yielded mixed results, and the quality of interventions appears more crucial than the length. Research gaps concern further theoretical development, the individual intervention studies&amp;rsquo; research methodological standards, and improvement of literature reviews&amp;rsquo; methodological quality. The results offer a theoretical background for future research on teacher education interventions and research progress in teacher education effectiveness.


---
# Methamphetamine exposure during the preweaning period alters hippocampal neurogenesis

## 断奶前暴露于甲基苯丙胺会改变海马神经发生

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5742375/latest

Background: Methamphetamine (MA) is one of the most abused illicit drugs in the world. Abuse of this drug among adolescents, given the still-developing physiological functions of the body, including the central nervous system (CNS), is problematic. The hippocampus (HP) is part of the limbic system and is associated with cognition, as well as the reward system, which is mediated by dopamine (DA). Disruption of this system is the primary mechanism underlying addiction and results in cognition deficiencies.
Methods: In this work, we focused on the influence of MA on the development of the rat HP during postnatal days 11&ndash;20. Subsequently, after MA application, we studied learning and memory processes using the Morris Water Maze (MWM). After the MWM, we measured the expression of the protein doublecortin (DCX), neurotransmitter levels of DA, GLU, 5HT, NA, and GABA, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP).
Results: MA significantly impairs HP neurogenesis when administered during the third postnatal week, as indicated by reduced expression of DCX, which correlates with increased levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), but these changes were not significantly reflected in learning abilities and memory formation nor the levels of neurotransmitters.
Conclusion: We speculate that these mechanisms must be strongly expressed on multiple molecular levels to be able to cause cognitive changes. A significant role in this process is associated with the ability of young organisms to compensate and, to a certain extent, neurotoxic effects.


---
# Femto-joule threshold reconfigurable all-optical nonlinear activators for picosecond spiking neural networks

## 用于皮秒脉冲神经网络的毫微微焦耳阈值可重构全光非线性激励器

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5162168/latest

Achieving optical computing with thousands of tera-operations per second per watt per square millimeter (TOPs/W/mm 2 ) is the key to surpassing electrical computing. This realization requires a breakthrough in the design of a new optical computing architecture and nonlinear activation functions. In this work, we propose an on-chip picosecond spiking optical neural network architecture, which can be expected to achieve 2.13&times;10 3 TOPs/mm2. By leveraging the Kerr effect of silicon and the saturable absorption of graphene, we designed an all-optical nonlinear activator based on a graphene-silicon integrated photonic crystal cavity. The ultralow threshold, high-speed, compact, and reconfigurable all-optical nonlinear activator could achieve a 4 fJ activation energy threshold, a 1.05 ps response time, and an ultrasmall size of 15 &micro;m&times;10 &micro;m. This device provides foundation blocks for the picosecond spiking optical neural network chip to achieve 106 TOPs/W/mm2 level optical computing.


---
# Teacher competence in inclusive mathematics education: Examining the effects of an innovative professional development program on teacher noticing

## 全纳数学教育中的教师能力: 研究创新的专业发展计划对教师注意的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5752892/latest

This study investigated the effects of an innovative professional development program aimed at enhancing teacher noticing skills and professional knowledge in inclusive (mathematics) education in secondary algebra instruction. A total of 653 participants, comprising master&amp;rsquo;s students, teachers in preparatory service, and in-service teachers from Germany, participated in a pretest&amp;ndash;posttest evaluation design that included a control group. The program comprised 18 hours of coursework that integrated novel teaching materials and video-based learning activities that combined both mathematics pedagogical and general pedagogical perspectives on teacher noticing and associated knowledge. The results indicated significant improvements in teachers&amp;rsquo; noticing skills and professional knowledge for the intervention group across all investigated facets, particularly for teacher noticing under a pedagogical perspective and mathematics pedagogical knowledge, compared to a control group that exhibited no significant changes. Effect sizes ranged from small to medium, suggesting that the professional development program effectively improved participants&amp;rsquo; knowledge of inclusive teaching and their abilities to perceive, interpret, and make decisions in inclusive contexts. Notably, master&amp;rsquo;s students exhibited the most substantial gains in all competencies, while in-service teachers primarily improved their teacher noticing from a pedagogical perspective. The findings underscore the importance of tailored professional development for fostering teacher noticing in inclusive mathematics education and yield valuable insights into the competencies necessary for inclusive (mathematics) education.


---
# A Non-Uniform and Optimized Clustering Mechanism to Improve Network Lifetime in 5g-Based Indoor Localization

## 一种提高5g室内定位网络寿命的非均匀优化分簇机制

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5755390/latest

High-accuracy localizationis considered critical for resource management algorithms in modern applications such Internet of Things (IoT), smart factories, and autonomous vehicles. Indoor positioning presents a challenging process as the complexity of attaining higher accuracy is difficult within the indoor environments.This paper proposes a novel Non-Uniform and Optimised Clustering Mechanism (NUOCM) for indoor localization to manage complex datasets acquired from large-scale indoor radio systems. Using NUOCM-based communication, the research aims to improve the network lifetime and serves a reasonable number of User Equipments (UEs) or devices in Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) systems. NUOCM generates clusters through a novel method that uses an ensemble of classifiers from non-uniform cluster layers in 5G-based indoor localization.The UEs or devices are divided into sub-datasets based on values of Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP). Base classifiers including Support Vector Machine (SVM), Artificial Neural Network (ANN), Decision Tree (DT), and Random Forest (RF)are trained on these non-uniform clusters across several layers to improve spatial diversity. Finally, the optimal number of layers and clusters are defined by a Firefly Algorithm (FA), which maximises for localization accuracy, spatial diversity. The experiments are evaluate the efficacy of the proposed NUOCM and the results show an increased localization accuracy and network lifetime than the traditional clustering techniques in MIMO systems.


---
# Astrocytes provide the temporal dynamic required for memory formation

## 星形胶质细胞提供记忆形成所需的时间动态

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5416477/latest

Theta oscillations (4-12 Hz) in the hippocampus, driven by synchronous neuronal bursts, are essential for grouping and selecting neuronal ensembles during spatial navigation, memory, and learning 1,2. Yet, the specific mechanisms enabling this frequency band to effectively modulate neuronal ensembles remain unclear. Here, we show that burst activity at the CA3-CA1 synapse in the mouse hippocampus initiates rapid activation of astrocytic leaflets. This activation is mediated by retrograde messengers, which in turn activate transient receptor potential channels in astrocytes, potentiating glutamate release from Schaffer collaterals via the activation of presynaptic glutamate receptors. We show that this mechanism is synapse-specific and necessary for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP). Remarkably, this positive feedback loop peaks 50 to 200 ms after a burst, precisely aligning with the theta frequency range and optimizing reinforcement of neuronal activity. These findings indicate that astrocytes provide critical timing to potentiate synaptic transmission during the initial phases of learning and memory formation.


---
# Advanced Machine Learning-Driven Cyber Attack Detection in the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) Ecosystem

## 医疗物联网 (IoMT) 生态系统中先进的机器学习驱动的网络攻击检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5737066/latest

Today, the rise of the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) has evolved into a highly valued global market worth billions of dollars. However, this growth has also created many opportunities for massive and advanced attack scenarios due to the vast number of devices and their interconnected communication networks. Based on recent reports, it is observed that during the Covid-19 pandemic, the necessity of the IoMT ecosystem has increased significantly. On the other hand, attackers and intruders aim to impair data integrity and patient safety with the prevalence of sophisticated cyber attacks including Man in the Middle (MITM) attacks like spoofing and data injection. This research work uses the WUSTL-EHMS-2020 dataset to present a strong machine learning-based attack detection method. To tackle the distinct security issues of IoMT, we provide an ensemble model that combines Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) classifiers. By utilizing the complementing advantages of SVM's decision boundary precision and XGBoost's gradient-based optimization, our model outperforms baseline techniques with a superior detection accuracy of 94.29%. Further, it examines the applicability of a proposed model for IoMT-specific features, including heterogeneous medical device communication, resource limitations, and patient data sensitivity and compares the model with other IoT and IoMT datasets, revealing how cyberattack patterns vary based on environment. Thus this research work advances the creation of trustworthy and scalable cybersecurity solutions for Internet of Medical Things systems.


---
# Can Large Language Models Replace Coding Specialists? Evaluating GPT Performance in Medical Coding Tasks

## 大型语言模型可以取代编码专家吗？评估医疗编码任务中的GPT性能

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5750190/latest

Purpose: Large language Models (LLM), GPT in particular, have demonstrated near human-level performance in medical domain, from summarizing clinical notes and passing medical licensing examinations, to predictive tasks such as disease diagnoses and treatment recommendations. However, currently there is little research on their efficacy for medical coding, a pivotal component in health informatics, clinical trials, and reimbursement management. This study proposes a prompt framework and investigates its effectiveness in medical coding tasks.
Methods: First, a medical coding prompt framework is proposed. This framework aims to improve the performance of complex coding tasks by leveraging state-of-the-art (SOTA) prompt techniques including meta prompt, multi-shot learning, and dynamic in-context learning to extract task specific knowledge. This framework is implemented with a combination of commercial GPT-4o and open-source LLM. Then its effectiveness is evaluated with three different coding tasks. Finally, ablation studies are presented to validate and analyze the contribution of each module in the proposed prompt framework.
Results: On the MIMIC-IV dataset, the prediction accuracy is 68.1% over the 30 most frequent MS-DRG codes. The result is comparable to SOTA 69.4% that fine-tunes the open-source LLaMA model, to the best of our knowledge. And the top-5 accuracy is 90.0%. The clinical trial criteria coding task results in a macro F1 score of 68.4 on the CHIP-CTC test dataset in Chinese, close to 70.9, the best supervised model training method in comparison. For the less complex semantic coding task, our method results in a macro F1 score of 79.7 on the CHIP-STS test dataset in Chinese, which is not competitive with most supervised model training methods in comparison.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates that for complex medical coding tasks, carefully designed prompt-based learning can achieve similar performance as SOTA supervised model training approaches. Currently, it can be very helpful assistants, but it does not replace human coding specialists. With the rapid advancement of LLM, their potential to reliably automate complex medical coding in the near future cannot be underestimated.


---
# Self-Supervised Model-Informed Deep Learning for Low-SNR SS-OCT Domain Transformation

## 用于低SNR ss-oct域转换的自监督模型通知深度学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5730705/latest

This article introduces a novel deep-learning based framework, Super-resolution/Denosing network (SDNet), for simultaneous denoising and super-resolution of swept-source optical coherence tomography (SS-OCT) images. The novelty of this work lies in the hybrid integration of data-driven deep-learning with a model-informed noise representation, specifically designed to address the very low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and low-resolution challenges in SS-OCT imaging. SDNet introduces a two-step training process, leveraging noise-free OCT references to simulate low-SNR conditions. In the first step, the network learns to enhance noisy images by combining denoising and super-resolution within noise-corrupted reference domain. To refine its performance, the second step incorporates Principle Component Analysis (PCA) as self-supervised denoising strategy, eliminating the need for ground-truth noisy image data. This unique approach enhances SDNet&amp;rsquo;s adaptability and clinical relevance. A key advantage of SDNet is its ability to balance contrast-texture by adjusting the weights of the two training steps, offering clinicians flexibility for specific dagnostic needs. Experimental results across diverse datasets demonstrate that SDNet surpasses traditional model-based and data-driven methods in computational efficiency, noise reduction, and structural fidelity. The framework excels in improving both image quality and diagnostic accuracy. Additionally, SDNet shows promising adaptability for analyzing low-resolution, low-SNR OCT images, such as those from patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). This study establishes SDNet as a robust, efficient, and clinically adaptable solution for OCT image enhancement addressing critical limitations in contemporary imaging workflows.

