# Learning from a pandemic many are forgetting

## 从大流行中学习许多人都忘记了

Link: https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/science.adv6041?af=R

**Authors:** Jon Cohen

Science, Volume 387, Issue 6729, Page 10-11, January 2025. <br />


---
# Reusability report: Deep learning-based analysis of images and spectroscopy data with AtomAI

## 可重用性报告: 使用AtomAI对图像和光谱数据进行基于深度学习的分析

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00958-9

**Authors:** Rohit Batra

<p>Nature Machine Intelligence, Published online: 02 January 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00958-9">doi:10.1038/s42256-024-00958-9</a></p>Vashishtha and colleagues test and reuse AtomAI, a machine learning framework developed for analysing microscopy data, for a range of materials characterization tasks.


---
# Hetero-integrated perovskite/Si<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub> on-chip photonic system

## 异质集成钙钛矿/Si&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;N&lt;sub&gt;4&lt;/sub&gt; 片上光子系统

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41566-024-01603-y

**Authors:** Qihuang Gong

<p>Nature Photonics, Published online: 02 January 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41566-024-01603-y">doi:10.1038/s41566-024-01603-y</a></p>Hybrid hetero-integration of dual-functional perovskite diodes and a photonic neural network for computing tasks are demonstrated on a near-infrared monolithic on-chip photonic system based on a perovskite/silicon nitride platform, exemplifying the extension of perovskite device applications.


---
# Complexity phase transitions in instantaneous quantum polynomial-time circuits

## 瞬时量子多项式时间电路中的复杂性相变

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.7.013001

**Authors:** Chae-Yeun Park and Michael J. Kastoryano

Author(s): Chae-Yeun Park and Michael J. Kastoryano<br /><p>We study the classical hardness of learning the output distribution from instantaneous quantum polynomial-time circuits with a varying density of two-qubit gates. We first investigate the complexity phases relevant to simulating the output distribution. In addition to a known parameter regime for an…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 7, 013001] Published Thu Jan 02, 2025


---
# Predicting topological invariants and unconventional superconducting pairing from density of states and machine learning

## 从态密度和机器学习预测拓扑不变量和非常规超导配对

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.014501

**Authors:** Flávio Noronha, Askery Canabarro, Rafael Chaves, and Rodrigo G. Pereira

Author(s): Flávio Noronha, Askery Canabarro, Rafael Chaves, and Rodrigo G. Pereira<br /><p>Competition between magnetism and superconductivity can lead to unconventional and topological superconductivity. However, the experimental confirmation of the presence of Majorana edge states and unconventional pairing poses a major challenge. Here, we consider a two-dimensional lattice model for a…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 014501] Published Thu Jan 02, 2025


---
# (Semi-) Automatic Review Process for Common Compound Characterization Data in Organic Synthesis

## 有机合成中常见化合物表征数据的 (半) 自动评审过程

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-1r9tb-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Oskar, Taubert

A method for data review in chemical sciences with a focus on data for the characterization of synthetic molecules is described. As current procedures for data curation in chemistry rely almost exclusively on manual checking or peer reviewing, a (semi-)automatic procedure for the evaluation of data assigned to molecular structures is proposed and demonstrated. The information usually required for the identification of isolated compounds is used to clarify whether the data is complete with respect to the available data types and metadata, if it is consistent with the proposed structure and if it is plausible in comparison to simulated data. Spectra prediction and automatic signal comparison are applied to NMR evaluation, mass spectrometry data are evaluated by signal extraction, and machine learning is used for IR analysis. The proposed protocol shows how an integration of different tools for data analysis can help to overcome the challenges of the currently purely manual review and curation efforts for analytical data in synthetic chemistry.


---
# Harness first principles thinking in problem-based learning for chemical education

## 在化学教育中以问题为基础的学习中利用第一性原理思维

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-67s9h?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Xinxin, Xiao

In philosophy and science, a first principle is a basic proposition or assumption that cannot be deduced from any other proposition or assumption. Ancient Greek philosophy Aristotle defined the first principle as “the first basis from which a thing is known.” First principles thinking (or reasoning from first principles) is a way of thinking and problem-solving that breaks down a complex problem into its most basic assumptions, facts, concepts, or ideas and then reassembles them from the bottom-up. In this paper, we reported our attempts to harness first principles thinking into problem-based learning (PBL) in chemistry education. Two PBL projects were elaborately designed respectively for two student groups. By utilizing the inquiry-based technique and jigsaw technique, the understanding of the fundamental principles of chemistry was employed to guide the students´ research activity and strengthen the learning of chemistry. We also observed signs of increased creativity during the process. This communication indicated that first principles thinking could be harnessed to increase students´ learning depth and promote creativity in chemical education.


---
# Cost-Efficient Evaluation of Molecular Generative Models' Generalizability in de. novo. Drug Design via a Double-Parameter Mathematical Framework

## de. novo中分子生成模型概括性的成本效益评估。通过双参数数学框架进行药物设计

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-n0qpb?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Yangyang, Deng

Deep generative models are increasingly crucial in de. novo. drug design, excelling in the rapid exploration of vast chemical spaces for advancing molecular design. By integrating techniques such as adversarial networks, reinforcement learning, and transfer learning, these models can effectively leverage both the public datasets and the collected experimental data. However, accurately assessing the generalization ability of these models for drug discovery applications, while minimizing costs, still remains to be challenging. Developing an accurate yet cost-effective solution would provide substantial benefits to both academia and industry. In this study, we propose three accuracy-based methods for predicting the theoretical coverage of generative models, classifying them into three cost levels: low, medium, and high. For all these methods, the derivative of a unique curve with respect to sample iterations can serve as the most cost-effective yet reliable metric for evaluating generalization ability. To address sampling non-uniformity, we propose a novel double-parameter mathematical model that can accurately fit for both experimental and theoretical coverage across various generative architectures. Furthermore, the developed model provides qualitative insights into how transfer learning and reinforcement learning influence generative models' performance by examining changes resulting from increased non-uniformity and enhanced probabilities of sampling target molecules.


---
# Free-Energy Landscapes and Surface Dynamics
in Methane Activation on Ni(511) via Machine
Learning and Enhanced Sampling

## 自由能源景观和表面动力学
通过机器在Ni(511) 上活化甲烷
学习和增强采样

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-6wnm2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Juan, de Pablo

Methane activation on stepped Ni(511) surfaces involves the rearrangement of surface atoms as the chemical reaction proceeds. This process is particularly sensitive to temperature. Using machine-learned interatomic potentials (MLIPs) coupled with enhanced sampling techniques, we investigate the activation of methane under realistic operando conditions. Our analysis reveals that methane dissociation occurs predominantly at step-edge nickel atoms. As CHx (where x = 3 or 4) species bind to additional surface nickel atoms, their reduced mobility leads to entropic penalties that suppress certain configurations and transition states. This is reflected in the underlying free energy surfaces, where configurations such as methyl binding to hollow sites and activation routes involving two nickel atoms become unfavorable as temperature increases. At elevated temperatures, methane activation extends from step-edge sites to terrace regions because of reduced free-energy barriers and enhanced surface dynamics. By decomposing the free energy into enthalpic and entropic contributions, we uncover temperature-dependent shifts in the preferences of methane for the relevant active sites and arrive at a detailed molecular picture of methane activation.


---
# Prediction of acute toxicity of organic contaminants to fish: model development and a novel approach to identify reactive substructures

## 预测有机污染物对鱼类的急性毒性: 模型开发和识别反应性亚结构的新方法

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-ft75g?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Zhang, Mingming

In this study, count-based Morgan fingerprints (CMF) was used to represent the fundamental chemical structures of contaminants, and a neural network model (R²=0.76) was developed to predict acute fish toxicity (AFT) of organic compounds, which surpassed previous models. We found the limitations of in distinguishing homologous compounds may account for the suboptimal performance of binary fingerprints.  The principles of generation and collision of CMF was explored and an improved method based on Tanimoto distance was introduced to calculated molecular similarity represented by CMFs as well. Toxic substructures identified by Shapley additive explanation (SHAP) method were substituted benzenes, long carbon chains, unsaturated carbons and halogen atoms. By incorporating KOW and monitoring shifts in feature importance, the influence of substructures on AFT was further delineated, revealing their roles in facilitating exposure and reactive toxicity. On this basis, we compared the toxicity of similar substructures and the same substructure in different chemical environments. To overcome the limitation of SHAP analysis, this study proposed a new method, toxicity index (TI), to identify substructures that were present in small quantities but highly toxic. With TI, we identified several important substructures, such as parathion and polycyclic substituents. We found that the toxicity of large substructures may be misestimated in the previous studies.


---
# Augmented and Programmatically Optimized LLM Prompts Reduce Chemical Hallucinations

## 增强和编程优化的LLM提示减少化学幻觉

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-rwgt8?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Scott, Reed

Utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) for handling scientific information comes with risk of the outputs not matching expectations, commonly called hallucinations. To fully utilize LLMs in research requires improving their accuracy, avoiding hallucinations, and extending their scope to research topics outside their direct training. There is also a benefit to getting the most accurate information from an LLM at the time of inference without having to create and train custom new models for each application. Here, augmented generation and machine learning driven prompt optimization are combined to extract performance improvements over base LLM function on a common chemical research task. Specifically, an LLM was used to predict the topological polar surface area (TPSA) of molecules. By using augmented generation and machine learning optimized prompts, the error in the prediction was reduced to 7.44 root mean squared error (RMSE) from 59.41 RMSE with direct calls to the same LLM.


---
# Identification and validation of mitochondrial dynamics-related genes in patients with acute myocardial infarction-a bioinformatics analysis

## 急性心肌梗死患者线粒体动力学相关基因的鉴定与验证 -- 生物信息学分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5727986/latest

Recent studies highlight the link between cardiovascular disease and mitochondrial dynamics. This study sought biomarkers of mitochondrial dynamics in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) to guide more precise clinical management. AMI-related datasets (GSE62646 and GSE59867) and 50 mitochondrial dynamics-related genes (MD-RGs) were derived from public databases. Firstly, based on MD-RGs, AMI samples in GSE62646 were classified into high- and low-scoring groups by single-sample gene set enrichment analysis. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were incorporated into machine learning algorithms. Subsequent expression level and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses identified biomarkers. Furthermore, the relationship between biomarkers and AMI was analyzed by enrichment analysis, immune infiltration analysis, correlation analysis of m6A regulators. Finally, biomarker expression was verified by reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). In this study, COX7B and SNORD54 were identified as biomarkers associated with mitochondrial dynamics in AMI. ROC curves showed that two biomarkers could better differentiate between AMI and control samples, and subsequent nomogram created by integrating two biomarkers were highly accurate in predicting AMI. Furthermore, enrichment analysis revealed that co-enrich pathways for COX7B and SNORD54 included &amp;ldquo;oxidative phosphorylation&amp;rdquo; and &amp;ldquo;Notch signaling pathway&amp;rdquo;. Notably, six m6A regulators (HNRNPC, KIAA1429, METTL3, WTAP, YTHDC1, and YTHDC2) were found to be significantly under-expressed in AMI samples. The RT-PCR demonstrated that the expression levels of COX7B and SNORD54 were significantly downregulated in AMI samples compared to controls. The study recognized COX7B and SNORD54 as biomarkers associated with mitochondrial dynamics in AMI, presenting potential clinical applications that could advance the understanding of AMI management.


---
# Broadening the Perspective of Traditional Lecturing vs. Active Learning in Introductory College Biology

## 拓宽传统讲授与大学生物学入门课程中主动学习的视角

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5702022/latest

This research aimed to examine the effectiveness of traditional lectures versus active lectures in introductory college biology classes composed of science and non-science majors, a topic of significant importance in the field of education. In a traditional lecture, the researcher used PowerPoint to present class content while answering direct student questions. In contrast, an active lecture included a PowerPoint, a collaborative group activity, and class dialogue. Students were given pre- and post-class surveys to assess content learning and open-ended questions to examine learning preferences. The results demonstrate a significant increase in student understanding after both lectures, with a statistically more significant score change from the pre- to post-test for the active lecture. Moreover, students expressed a higher level of enjoyment in the active class. These findings underscore the potential of active learning in enhancing student understanding and engagement. Given the variability in learning styles, this study highlights the importance of devising mechanisms to gauge and implement the optimal extent and types of active learning strategies. The study's results suggested that reframing the active vs. traditional lecturing binary paradigm into a continuum may help instructors plan courses to best meet students' needs.


---
# Lightweight Hierarchical Dynamic Adaptation Network:Enhancing Few-Shot Object Detection with Robust FeatureRecalibration

## 轻量级分层动态自适应网络: 通过鲁棒的特征校准增强少量目标检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5738459/latest

Few-shot object detection (FSOD) is a challenging task that aims to accurately locate and identify specific objects with minimal data. Despite recent advances in transfer learning and meta-learning methods, FSOD still faces difficulties in achieving effective feature representation. To address this, we propose a Lightweight Hierarchical Dynamic Adaptation Network (LHDAN), which enhances feature extraction and recalibration processes without significantly increasing the number of training samples. LHDAN leverages often-overlooked intermediate features and introduces a composite loss function to dynamically focus on relevant features during learning. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance across multiple FSOD benchmark datasets, with approximately 1.5\% improvement over most existing methods. By redefining the feature extraction and recalibration processes, LHDAN strengthens the model's discriminative ability and robustness, setting a new benchmark for FSOD.


---
# Seasonal Variation of Field Notes Completion in a Family Medicine Residency Program

## 家庭医学住院医师计划中现场笔记完成情况的季节性变化

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5737925/latest

BACKGROUND Field Notes (FN) is a competency-based assessment tool used in Canadian Family Medicine programs, that provide low-stakes feedback to learners while documenting their progress towards competency. Data from the University of Toronto&amp;rsquo;s Department of Family and Community Medicine revealed substantial seasonal variations in FN use over 10 years. We explored the perspectives of Family Medicine residents and preceptors regarding factors influencing seasonal variations in FN completion.METHODS Nine one-on-one interviews of residents and preceptors were conducted, recorded, de-identified, and transcribed.  Thematic analysis of codes was performed using deductive and inductive techniques by three independent reviewers, with group review to resolve discrepancies.RESULTS  Five themes emerged: 1) FN completion correlated with residents&amp;rsquo; learning curves, 2) curricular factors impacted FN use, 3) FN were influenced by vacation periods, 4) Residents and preceptors had different motivators for FN initiation, and 5) barriers such as administrative burdens and lack of standardized guidelines hindered FN use.CONCLUSIONS  Strategic interventions such as scheduled reminders, standardized guidelines, and improvements to the FN platform could enhance FN utilization, ensuring consistent feedback and promoting competency development. Future studies should involve larger samples across multiple institutions to validate these findings and enhance generalizability across Canadian Family Medicine programs.


---
# Gradient-Weighted Class Activation Mapping Based Deep Transfer Learning For Glaucoma Disease Prediction

## 基于梯度加权类激活映射的深度迁移学习在青光眼疾病预测中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5734356/latest

Glaucoma is a progressive eye disease characterized by damage to optic nerve. Early detection and management are crucial to preserving vision, making prediction of glaucoma risk. To improve accurate prediction, Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapped Deep Transfer Learning (GWCAMDTL) model is developed. The main aim of the model is to enhance the accuracy of glaucoma prediction while minimizing time consumption. Retinal fundus images are collected from the dataset for accurate prediction in image acquisition phase. Deep transfer learning involves adapting a pre-trained deep learning model for performing glaucoma prediction. In proposed Deep transfer learning model, the Multilayer Perceptron classifier is used as pre-trained model for analyzing the given large number of training images. Then, new model is constructed along with its pre-trained model for disease prediction. Initially, layers in pre-trained model are usually frozen to preserve the learned features from the infected regions. Transferring information from previously learned results by the pre-trained mode to new tasks has the potential to significantly improve feature learning efficiency by applying the congruence correlation coefficient. Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping generates visual explanations for the predictions made by model. Fine-tuning layers is crucial part of transfer learning. During fine-tuning for glaucoma prediction, the model weights of certain layers are updated to better fit the specific characteristics of the new glaucoma dataset, leading to a reduction in both training and validation error. This approach improves the accuracy of glaucoma prediction by applying the strengths of the pre-trained model and adapting it to the clinical features of retinal fundus images. This process helps to make accurate predictions and extensively improves the F1-score. Experimental are conducted using various evaluation metrics. Results of GWCAMDTL achieve higher accuracy with reduced time as well as error compared to existing methods.


---
# Accident Prevention through Enhanced Visibility Prediction: A Sophisticated Approach Leveraging Machine Learning Techniques

## 通过增强的可见性预测预防事故: 一种利用机器学习技术的复杂方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5724723/latest

Weather reports are essential for a range of purposes, including pollution control and addressing weather-related issues. They help identify the dispersion of pollutants, enabling effective pollution management. Weather forecasts also aid in preparing for emergencies, optimizing agriculture practices, ensuring safe transportation, and promoting public health. These reports play a vital role in decision-making across sectors, enhancing safety, resilience, and overall well-being. Using machine learning, particularly the logistic regression algorithm, this study demonstrates its efficacy in predicting binary weather events like rain or sunny based on various weather parameters. Through accurate modeling and evaluation, the research highlights the algorithm's potential for practical weather forecasting applications. This research intends to analyze the significance of weather forecasting for advancing our comprehension of Indian weather dynamics and its role in enhancing predictive capabilities to address weather-related challenges effectively. Through our model and analysis, we attempt to predict the visibility index and identify the factors such as pollution, gas emissions, etc which affect visibility in specific regions which impact the number of accidents and mishaps


---
# Green Growth or Economic Trade-offs? Economic Costs of Environmental Degradation in ECOWAS. A New Perspective from Artificial Neural Network and SEM Analysis

## 绿色增长还是经济权衡？西非经共体环境退化的经济代价。人工神经网络和SEM分析的新视角

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5675754/latest

Environmental degradation creates unfriendly conditions for economic growth and public health, especially in developing regions like West African countries, where fast industrialization increases these risks, along with precarious environmental legislation. The study aims to analyze the direct and indirect relationships between environmental degradation, health expenditure, and economic growth within the ECOWAS region. The research adopted structural equation modelling (SEM) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) analysis to examine the impact of carbon dioxide emission, nitrous oxide emissions, and air quality levels on economic growth, taking health expenditure as the mediating variable. Results of SEM show that carbon emission; and nitrous oxide emission positively influence the economy, while poor air quality negatively affects it, health expenditure mediates the influence of nitrous oxide emission on economic growth with an indirect effect. However, it has an insignificant mediating effect between carbon emissions and air quality. Also, ANN analysis confirms the SEM results that indicate carbon emission has the highest predictive importance. The study, therefore, recommends increased stringency of environmental regulations in the West African region, investment in clean energies, and health infrastructural improvement as ways through which environmental degradation may be minimized to allow the attainment of economic development sustainably.
JEL: H51, P18, Q51, Q53, Q56


---
# High Precision Intravenous Drip Infusion Monitoring Method Based on Improved YOLOv8n

## 基于改进YOLOv8n的高精度静脉滴注输液监测方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5702977/latest

Visual sensor-based infusion monitoring methods have the advantage of being easily integrated into existing medical facilities, but suffer from the problem that monitoring accuracy decreases when the distance between dropper and camera changes. Therefore, this paper proposed a deep learning-based infusion monitoring method that uses improved YOLOv8n network to detect the dropper, droplet, and liquid level, obtains the relative droplet area and relative liquid level height from the ratio of geometric parameters of the detection anchor box, and calculates the infusion rate by the periodic change of the relative droplet area. The experimental results show that the mAP@0.5:0.95 of the improved network reached 91.739%, using relative droplet area to calculate the infusion rate is more accurate than previous method using droplet area, and the error did not exceed 1 drop per minute when the infusion rate is less than 120 drops per minute. It can also accurately measure the infusion remainder in the dropper when the infusion is about to end, and remind the medical staff to change the bottle or remove the needle at the right time.


---
# Incidence of Adverse Drug Reactions in HIV/AIDS patients in China: an active monitoring study using leveraging natural language processing and machine learning

## 中国HIV/AIDS患者药物不良反应发生率: 一项利用自然语言处理和机器学习的主动监测研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5703681/latest

To evaluate the incidence and type with adverse drug reactions (ADRs) among HIV/AIDS patients by Hospital Intelligent Pharmacovigilance System. A retrospective analysis was performed on 3971 HIV/AIDS patients admitted to the First Hospital of Changsha in China, from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2023. Intelligent Recognition Models with Natural Language Processing Techniques for Intelligent Monitoring Systems was used to detect ADR signals of hospital information system. The causality risk factors for the ADRs of adverse drug reactions were classified using the WHO-UMC system. Our results showed that the prevalence of ADRs was 15.69% in the patients, which mainly was predominated by skin and appendages disorders and gastrointestinal (GI) disorders (2.87% vs. 2.67% ). The most of the reactions were associated with ADR could be explained by the use of antimicrobials and antiretrovirals with by 34.92% and 26.32%, respectively. 75.36% of ADRs had occurrenceed within 14 days of hospitalization. Together, the incidence of adverse reaction ADRs of patients was significantly high during the treatment period. Moreover, the active monitoring of the CHPS system reflected the adverse reaction ADRs of patients with during COVID-19 treatment in the real world, which provided reference for clinical safe medication in clinic.


---
# Local Back-Propagation: Layer-wise Unsupervised Learning in Forward-Forward Algorithms

## 局部反向传播: 向前-向前算法中的逐层无监督学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5695830/latest

Recent deep learning models, such as GPT-4, use the back-propagation algorithm (BP) and have achieved impressive performance. However, there is a noticeable difference between how BP operates and how the human brain learns. In response to this, the Forward-Forward algorithm (FF) was introduced. FF trains deep learning models using only forward passes. Although FF cannot fully replace BP due to its need for specialized inputs and loss functions, it remains promising in situations where BP is difficult to use, such as federated learning. To address these limitations and demonstrate the practical value of FF, we propose a Local Back-Propagation method that incorporates unsupervised FF. By using an unsupervised learning model, our approach allows training with standard inputs and common loss functions, thereby avoiding the special requirements of FF. This not only leads to more stable learning but also enables a wider range of possible applications than FF alone. Furthermore, because our method allows each layer to be physically separated, we have tested its effectiveness in scenarios like federated learning, where individual models are trained separately and then combined. Our results confirm that this approach expands the usability and scope of FF-based training methods.


---
# Multi-scale ensemble model for dMMR prediction from histopathological images of colorectal cancer

## 基于多尺度集成模型的结直肠癌组织病理学图像dMMR预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5677679/latest

Colorectal cancer, the second most fatal malignancy globally, burdens public healthcare systems. AI-assisted cancer diagnostics could enable significant cost savings. This study presents a multi-scale ensemble model for DNA mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR) detection from Whole Slide Images (WSIs). dMMR is a clinically important feature, traditionally identified through labor- and time-intensive DNA analysis. The dMMR prediction capability of non-tumorous regions was also evaluated, but it showed limited potential. Therefore, tumorous regions were utilized. The model, comprising two convolutional neural network (CNN) branches and an XGBoost layer, was trained on 1,228 WSIs. It achieved an F1 score of 0.863 (sensitivity 0.852) on internal testing, and F1 &amp;nbsp;scores of 0.770 (sensitivity 0.868) and 0.743 (sensitivity 0.951) on external test sets of 1,010 and 457 WSIs, respectively. The results indicate that a multi-scale approach can be an effective strategy when developing digital pathology algorithms.

