# Resistive memory-based zero-shot liquid state machine for multimodal event data learning

## 用于多模态事件数据学习的基于电阻存储器的零触发液体状态机

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00751-z

**Authors:** Ming Liu

<p>Nature Computational Science, Published online: 09 January 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s43588-024-00751-z">doi:10.1038/s43588-024-00751-z</a></p>This study presents a neuromorphic computing platform capable of learning cross-modal, event-driven signals for efficient real-time knowledge generalization. It also achieves zero-shot transfer learning for multimodal data.


---
# Accelerating superconductor discovery through tempered deep learning of the electron-phonon spectral function

## 通过电子-声子光谱函数的回火深度学习来加速超导体的发现

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01475-4

**Authors:** Richard G. Hennig

<p>npj Computational Materials, Published online: 09 January 2025; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01475-4">doi:10.1038/s41524-024-01475-4</a></p>Accelerating superconductor discovery through tempered deep learning of the electron-phonon spectral function


---
# Conductive Islands Assisted Resistive Switching in Biomimetic Artificial Synapse for Associative Learning and Image Recognition

## 仿生人工突触中的导电岛辅助电阻开关，用于关联学习和图像识别

Link: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202412804?af=R

**Authors:** Rajesh Jana, 
Ritamay Bhunia, 
Swapnamoy Paramanik, 
Kinsuk Giri, 
Avijit Chowdhury

Advanced Functional Materials, Volume 35, Issue 2, January 9, 2025.


---
# Machine Learning for Identifying Grain Boundaries in Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) Images of Nanoparticle Superlattices

## 用于识别纳米粒子超晶格的扫描电子显微镜 (SEM) 图像中的晶界的机器学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04172

**Authors:** Aanish Paruchuri, Carl Thrasher, A. J. Hart, Robert Macfarlane, Arthi Jayaraman

arXiv:2501.04172v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Nanoparticle superlattices consisting of ordered arrangements of nanoparticles exhibit unique optical, magnetic, and electronic properties arising from nanoparticle characteristics as well as their collective behaviors. Understanding how processing conditions influence the nanoscale arrangement and microstructure is critical for engineering materials with desired macroscopic properties. Microstructural features such as grain boundaries, lattice defects, and pores significantly affect these properties but are challenging to quantify using traditional manual analyses as they are labor-intensive and prone to errors. In this work, we present a machine learning workflow for automating grain segmentation in scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of nanoparticle superlattices. This workflow integrates signal processing techniques, such as Radon transforms, with unsupervised learning methods like agglomerative hierarchical clustering to identify and segment grains without requiring manually annotated data. In the workflow we transform the raw pixel data into explainable numerical representation of superlattice orientations for clustering. Benchmarking results demonstrate the workflow's robustness against noisy images and edge cases, with a processing speed of four images per minute on standard computational hardware. This efficiency makes the workflow scalable to large datasets and makes it a valuable tool for integrating data-driven models into decision-making processes for material design and analysis. For example, one can use this workflow to quantify grain size distributions at varying processing conditions like temperature and pressure and using that knowledge adjust processing conditions to achieve desired superlattice orientations and grain sizes.


---
# The unbearable lightness of Restricted Boltzmann Machines: Theoretical Insights and Biological Applications

## 受限玻尔兹曼机器的难以承受的轻盈: 理论见解和生物学应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04387

**Authors:** Giovanni di Sarra, Barbara Bravi, Yasser Roudi

arXiv:2501.04387v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Restricted Boltzmann Machines are simple yet powerful neural networks. They can be used for learning structure in data, and are used as a building block of more complex neural architectures. At the same time, their simplicity makes them easy to use, amenable to theoretical analysis, yielding interpretable models in applications. Here, we focus on reviewing the role that the activation functions, describing the input-output relationship of single neurons in RBM, play in the functionality of these models. We discuss recent theoretical results on the benefits and limitations of different activation functions. We also review applications to biological data analysis, namely neural data analysis, where RBM units are mostly taken to have sigmoid activation functions and binary units, to protein data analysis and immunology where non-binary units and non-sigmoid activation functions have recently been shown to yield important insights into the data. Finally, we discuss open problems addressing which can shed light on broader issues in neural network research.


---
# Learning by Confusion: The Phase Diagram of the Holstein Model

## 从困惑中学习: Holstein模型的相图

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04681

**Authors:** George Issa, Owen Bradley, Ehsan Khatami, Richard Scalettar

arXiv:2501.04681v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We employ the "learning by confusion" technique, an unsupervised machine learning approach for detecting phase transitions, to analyze quantum Monte Carlo simulations of the two-dimensional Holstein model--a fundamental model for electron-phonon interactions on a lattice. Utilizing a convolutional neural network, we conduct a series of binary classification tasks to identify Holstein critical points based on the neural network's learning accuracy. We further evaluate the effectiveness of various training datasets, including snapshots of phonon fields and other measurements resolved in imaginary time, for predicting distinct phase transitions and crossovers. Our results culminate in the construction of the finite-temperature phase diagram of the Holstein model.


---
# Quantum-inspired Embeddings Projection and Similarity Metrics for Representation Learning

## 用于表示学习的量子启发嵌入投影和相似性度量

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04591

**Authors:** Ivan Kankeu, Stefan Gerd Fritsch, Gunnar Sch\"onhoff, Elie Mounzer, Paul Lukowicz, Maximilian Kiefer-Emmanouilidis

arXiv:2501.04591v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Over the last decade, representation learning, which embeds complex information extracted from large amounts of data into dense vector spaces, has emerged as a key technique in machine learning. Among other applications, it has been a key building block for large language models and advanced computer vision systems based on contrastive learning. A core component of representation learning systems is the projection head, which maps the original embeddings into different, often compressed spaces, while preserving the similarity relationship between vectors.
  In this paper, we propose a quantum-inspired projection head that includes a corresponding quantum-inspired similarity metric. Specifically, we map classical embeddings onto quantum states in Hilbert space and introduce a quantum circuit-based projection head to reduce embedding dimensionality. To evaluate the effectiveness of this approach, we extended the BERT language model by integrating our projection head for embedding compression. We compared the performance of embeddings, which were compressed using our quantum-inspired projection head, with those compressed using a classical projection head on information retrieval tasks using the TREC 2019 and TREC 2020 Deep Learning benchmarks. The results demonstrate that our quantum-inspired method achieves competitive performance relative to the classical method while utilizing 32 times fewer parameters. Furthermore, when trained from scratch, it notably excels, particularly on smaller datasets. This work not only highlights the effectiveness of the quantum-inspired approach but also emphasizes the utility of efficient, ad hoc low-entanglement circuit simulations within neural networks as a powerful quantum-inspired technique.


---
# Chondrule dust rim growth: Influence of restructuring using molecular dynamics simulations

## 软骨尘埃边缘的生长: 使用分子动力学模拟进行重组的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04625

**Authors:** Chuchu Xiang, Nina Merkert, Lorin S. Matthews, Augusto Carballido, Truell W. Hyde

arXiv:2501.04625v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We investigate the influence of disruptive collisions on chondrule rim growth, emphasizing the role of kinetic energy in determining the outcomes of these interactions. We establish a threshold of approximately 10 cm/s for the "hit-and-stick" collision regime, beyond which significant changes occur in the structure of rimmed chondrules. Our findings highlight that at low collision energies (KE $< 10^{-12}$ J), minimal structural alteration takes place, while higher energies (KE up to $10^{-10}$ J) lead to compaction of the rim, reducing both its thickness and porosity. Collisions with energies exceeding $10^{-8}$ J result in the complete disruption of the rim, with particles being expelled from it. These results are correlated with the turbulence levels within the disk, as kinetic energy scales with the relative velocities of colliding particles. Leveraging machine learning models trained on our collision data, we predict changes in rim characteristics and employ these predictions in a Monte Carlo simulation to explore rim growth dynamics. Our simulations reveal that rim development is sustained in low-turbulence environments ($\alpha \leq 10^{-5}$), while intermediate turbulence levels ($\alpha$ = $10^{-3}$ to $10^{-4}$) lead to erosion, preventing further rim accumulation in high-turbulence contexts.


---
# Functional Decomposition and Estimation of Irreversibility in Time Series via Machine Learning

## 基于机器学习的时间序列函数分解与不可逆性估计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.06063

**Authors:** Michele Vodret, Cristiano Pacini, Christian Bongiorno

arXiv:2407.06063v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This work introduces a novel, simple, and flexible method to quantify irreversibility in generic high-dimensional time series based on the well-known mapping to a binary classification problem. Our approach utilizes gradient boosting for estimation, providing a model-free, nonlinear analysis able to handle large-dimensional systems while requiring minimal or no calibration. Our procedure is divided into three phases: trajectory encoding, Markovian order identification, and hypothesis testing for variable interactions. The latter is the key innovation that allows us to selectively switch off variable interactions to discern their specific contribution to irreversibility. When applied to financial markets, our findings reveal a distinctive shift: during stable periods, irreversibility is mainly related to short-term patterns, whereas in unstable periods, these short-term patterns are disrupted, leaving only contributions from stable long-term ones. This observed transition underscores the crucial importance of high-order variable interactions in understanding the dynamics of financial markets, especially in times of turbulence.


---
# Metadensity functional theory for classical fluids: Extracting the pair potential

## 经典流体的元密度泛函理论: 提取对势

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06972

**Authors:** Stefanie M. Kampa, Florian Samm\"uller, Matthias Schmidt, Robert Evans

arXiv:2411.06972v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The excess free energy functional of classical density functional theory depends upon the type of fluid model, specifically on the choice of (pair) potential, is unknown in general, and is approximated reliably only in special cases. We present a machine learning scheme for training a neural network that acts as a generic metadensity functional for truncated but otherwise arbitrary pair potentials. Automatic differentiation and neural functional calculus then yield, for one-dimensional fluids, accurate predictions for inhomogeneous states and immediate access to the pair distribution function. The approach provides a means of addressing a fundamental problem in the physics of liquids, and for soft matter design: How best to invert structural data to obtain the pair potential?


---
# Vision transformer based Deep Learning of Topological indicators in Majorana Nanowires

## 基于视觉转换器的Majorana纳米线拓扑指标深度学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06768

**Authors:** Jacob R. Taylor, Sankar Das Sarma

arXiv:2412.06768v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: 1D superconductor-semiconductor nanowires are leading candidates for topological quantum computation due to their ability to host Majorana zero modes (MZMs). However, standard methods for identifying MZMs are often inadequate, particularly in the presence of disorder, where many properties considered to be heralds of MZMs are often generated by trivial disorder induced Andreev bound states. Recent works clearly indicate the need for developing new techniques for identifying and diagnosing MZMs. In this study, we utilize a Vision Transformer-based neural network to predict using tunnel conductance measurements, both whether a device manifests a topological MZMs phase, and also to map out the entire topological phase diagram. We show the ability of our method up to arbitrary confidence ($P>0.9998$) classify a device as possessing a non-trivial MZM-carrying topological phase for a wide variety of disorder parameters. Further, within these regimes we demonstrate an ability to predict from conductance measurements alternative (to the extensively used scattering-matrix-invariant topological indicator) Majorana indicators based on local density of states (LDOS). This work serves as a significant advance offering a step towards the practical realization of Majorana-based quantum devices, enabling a deep-learning understanding of the topological properties in disordered nanowire systems. We validate our method using extensive simulated Majorana results in the presence of disorder, and suggest using this technique for the analysis of experimental data in superconductor-semiconductor hybrid Majorana platforms.


---
# CrystalFlow: A Flow-Based Generative Model for Crystalline Materials

## CrystalFlow: 一种基于流的晶体材料生成模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11693

**Authors:** Xiaoshan Luo, Zhenyu Wang, Jian Lv, Lei Wang, Yanchao Wang, Yanming Ma

arXiv:2412.11693v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Deep learning-based generative models have emerged as powerful tools for modeling complex data distributions and generating high-fidelity samples, offering a transformative approach to efficiently explore the configuration space of crystalline materials. In this work, we present CrystalFlow, a flow-based generative model specifically developed for the generation of crystalline materials. CrystalFlow constructs Continuous Normalizing Flows to model lattice parameters, atomic coordinates, and/or atom types, which are trained using Conditional Flow Matching techniques. Through an appropriate choice of data representation and the integration of a graph-based equivariant neural network, the model effectively captures the fundamental symmetries of crystalline materials, which ensures data-efficient learning and enables high-quality sampling. Our experiments demonstrate that CrystalFlow achieves state-of-the-art performance across standard generation benchmarks, and exhibits versatile conditional generation capabilities including producing structures optimized for specific external pressures or desired material properties. These features highlight the model's potential to address realistic crystal structure prediction challenges, offering a robust and efficient framework for advancing data-driven research in condensed matter physics and material science.


---
# Structure of activity in multiregion recurrent neural networks

## 多区域递归神经网络的活动结构

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12188

**Authors:** David G. Clark, Manuel Beiran

arXiv:2402.12188v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Neural circuits comprise multiple interconnected regions, each with complex dynamics. The interplay between local and global activity is thought to underlie computational flexibility, yet the structure of multiregion neural activity and its origins in synaptic connectivity remain poorly understood. We investigate recurrent neural networks with multiple regions, each containing neurons with random and structured connections. Inspired by experimental evidence of communication subspaces, we use low-rank connectivity between regions to enable selective activity routing. These networks exhibit high-dimensional fluctuations within regions and low-dimensional signal transmission between them. Using dynamical mean-field theory, with cross-region currents as order parameters, we show that regions act as both generators and transmitters of activity -- roles that are often in tension. Taming within-region activity can be crucial for effective signal routing. Unlike previous models that suppressed neural activity to control signal flow, our model achieves routing by exciting different high-dimensional activity patterns through connectivity structure and nonlinear dynamics. Our analysis offers insights into multiregion neural data and trained neural networks.


---
# Dynamics of Meta-learning Representation in the Teacher-student Scenario

## 师生场景中元学习表征的动态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12545

**Authors:** Hui Wang, Cho Tung Yip, Bo Li

arXiv:2408.12545v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Gradient-based meta-learning algorithms have gained popularity for their ability to train models on new tasks using limited data. Empirical observations indicate that such algorithms are able to learn a shared representation across tasks, which is regarded as a key factor in their success. However, the in-depth theoretical understanding of the learning dynamics and the origin of the shared representation remains underdeveloped. In this work, we investigate the meta-learning dynamics of nonlinear two-layer neural networks trained on streaming tasks in the teacher-student scenario. Through the lens of statistical physics analysis, we characterize the macroscopic behavior of the meta-training processes, the formation of the shared representation, and the generalization ability of the model on new tasks. The analysis also points to the importance of the choice of certain hyperparameters of the learning algorithms.


---
# SOLAX: A Python solver for fermionic quantum systems with neural network support

## SOLAX: 具有神经网络支持的费米子量子系统的Python求解器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16915

**Authors:** Louis Thirion, Philipp Hansmann, Pavlo Bilous

arXiv:2408.16915v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Numerical modeling of fermionic many-body quantum systems presents similar challenges across various research domains, necessitating universal tools, including state-of-the-art machine learning techniques. Here, we introduce SOLAX, a Python library designed to compute and analyze fermionic quantum systems using the formalism of second quantization. SOLAX provides a modular framework for constructing and manipulating basis sets, quantum states, and operators, facilitating the simulation of electronic structures and determining many-body quantum states in finite-size Hilbert spaces. The library integrates machine learning capabilities to mitigate the exponential growth of Hilbert space dimensions in large quantum clusters. The core low-level functionalities are implemented using the recently developed Python library JAX. Demonstrated through its application to the Single Impurity Anderson Model, SOLAX offers a flexible and powerful tool for researchers addressing the challenges of many-body quantum systems across a broad spectrum of fields, including atomic physics, quantum chemistry, and condensed matter physics.


---
# Deep learning optimal molecular scintillators for dark matter direct detection

## 用于暗物质直接探测的深度学习最优分子闪烁体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00091

**Authors:** Cameron Cook, Carlos Blanco, Juri Smirnov

arXiv:2501.00091v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Direct searches for sub-GeV dark matter are limited by the intrinsic quantum properties of the target material. In this proof-of-concept study, we argue that this problem is particularly well suited for machine learning. We demonstrate that a simple neural architecture consisting of a variational autoencoder and a multi-layer perceptron can efficiently generate unique molecules with desired properties. In specific, the energy threshold and signal (quantum) efficiency determine the minimum mass and cross section to which a detector can be sensitive. Organic molecules present a particularly interesting class of materials with intrinsically anisotropic electronic responses and $\mathcal{O}$(few) eV excitation energies. However, the space of possible organic compounds is intractably large, which makes traditional database screening challenging. We adopt excitation energies and proxy transition matrix elements as target properties learned by our network. Our model is able to generate molecules that are not in even the most expansive quantum chemistry databases and predict their relevant properties for high-throughput and efficient screening. Following a massive generation of novel molecules, we use clustering analysis to identify some of the most promising molecular structures that optimise the desired molecular properties for dark matter detection.


---
# Graph-Aware Isomorphic Attention for Adaptive Dynamics in Transformers

## 变压器自适应动力学的图感知同构注意

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02393

**Authors:** Markus J. Buehler

arXiv:2501.02393v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We present an approach to modifying Transformer architectures by integrating graph-aware relational reasoning into the attention mechanism, merging concepts from graph neural networks and language modeling. Building on the inherent connection between attention and graph theory, we reformulate the Transformer's attention mechanism as a graph operation and propose Graph-Aware Isomorphic Attention. This method leverages advanced graph modeling strategies, including Graph Isomorphism Networks (GIN) and Principal Neighborhood Aggregation (PNA), to enrich the representation of relational structures. Our approach captures complex dependencies and generalizes across tasks, as evidenced by a reduced generalization gap and improved learning performance. Additionally, we expand the concept of graph-aware attention to introduce Sparse GIN-Attention, a fine-tuning approach that employs sparse GINs. By interpreting attention matrices as sparse adjacency graphs, this technique enhances the adaptability of pre-trained foundational models with minimal computational overhead, endowing them with graph-aware capabilities. Sparse GIN-Attention fine-tuning achieves improved training dynamics and better generalization compared to alternative methods like low-rank adaption (LoRA). We discuss latent graph-like structures within traditional attention mechanisms, offering a new lens through which Transformers can be understood. By evolving Transformers as hierarchical GIN models for relational reasoning. This perspective suggests profound implications for foundational model development, enabling the design of architectures that dynamically adapt to both local and global dependencies. Applications in bioinformatics, materials science, language modeling, and beyond could benefit from this synthesis of relational and sequential data modeling, setting the stage for interpretable and generalizable modeling strategies.


---
# Scalable Discovery of Fundamental Physical Laws: Learning Magnetohydrodynamics from 3D Turbulence Data

## 基本物理定律的可扩展发现: 从3D湍流数据中学习磁流体动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04094

**Authors:** Matthew Golden, Kaushik Satapathy, Dimitrios Psaltis

arXiv:2501.04094v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The discovery of dynamical models from data represents a crucial step in advancing our understanding of physical systems. Library-based sparse regression has emerged as a powerful method for inferring governing equations directly from spatiotemporal data, but current model-agnostic implementations remain computationally expensive, limiting their applicability to data that lack substantial complexity. To overcome these challenges, we introduce a scalable framework that enables efficient discovery of complex dynamical models across a wide range of applications. We demonstrate the capabilities of our approach, by ``discovering'' the equations of magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) from synthetic data generated by high-resolution simulations of turbulent MHD flows with viscous and Ohmic dissipation. Using a library of candidate terms that is $\gtrsim 10$ times larger than those in previous studies, we accurately recover the full set of MHD equations, including the subtle dissipative terms that are critical to the dynamics of the system. Our results establish sparse regression as a practical tool for uncovering fundamental physical laws from complex, high-dimensional data without assumptions on the underlying symmetry or the form of any governing equation.


---
# Modeling with quantities in calculus and physics: A conceptual framework of the fundamental theorem

## 微积分和物理学中的数量建模: 基本定理的概念框架

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04219

**Authors:** Suzanne White Brahmia, Patrick W. Thompson

arXiv:2501.04219v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: There is a substantial curricular overlap between calculus and physics, yet introductory physics students often struggle to connect the two. We introduce a conceptual framework for the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus (FTC) to help unify learning across both disciplines. We propose a consistent approach to teaching definite integrals, including shared vocabulary and symbolism, to help students recognize how concepts like change, rate, and accumulation show up in both calculus and physics. We argue that the typical interpretation of the FTC in calculus, focusing on antiderivatives in closed form, doesn't align well with how physicists use these concepts. We advocate for an additional focus on Riemann sums and the underlying ideas of change, rate, products, and accumulation, which are fundamental in both fields. This approach can help students build a deeper, more integrated understanding of both mathematics and physics quantity. By aligning learning objectives across the disciplines, we argue that students can develop a stronger understanding of foundational mathematical principles.


---
# DispFormer: Pretrained Transformer for Flexible Dispersion Curve Inversion from Global Synthesis to Regional Applications

## DispFormer: 用于从全局合成到区域应用的灵活色散曲线反演的预训练变压器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04366

**Authors:** Feng Liu, Bao Deng, Rui Su, Lei Bai, Wanli Ouyang

arXiv:2501.04366v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Surface wave dispersion curve inversion is essential for estimating subsurface Shear-wave velocity ($v_s$), yet traditional methods often struggle to balance computational efficiency with inversion accuracy. While deep learning approaches show promise, previous studies typically require large amounts of labeled data and struggle with real-world datasets that have varying period ranges, missing data, and low signal-to-noise ratios. This study proposes DispFormer, a transformer-based neural network for inverting the $v_s$ profile from Rayleigh-wave phase and group dispersion curves. DispFormer processes dispersion data at each period independently, thereby allowing it to handle data of varying lengths without requiring network modifications or alignment between training and testing data. The performance is demonstrated by pre-training it on a global synthetic dataset and testing it on two regional synthetic datasets using zero-shot and few-shot strategies. Results indicate that zero-shot DispFormer, even without any labeled data, produces inversion profiles that match well with the ground truth, providing a deployable initial model generator to assist traditional methods. When labeled data is available, few-shot DispFormer outperforms traditional methods with only a small number of labels. Furthermore, real-world tests indicate that DispFormer effectively handles varying length data, and yields lower data residuals than reference models. These findings demonstrate that DispFormer provides a robust foundation model for dispersion curve inversion and is a promising approach for broader applications.


---
# Data fusion of complementary data sources using Machine Learning enables higher accuracy Solar Resource Maps

## 使用机器学习的互补数据源的数据融合可实现更高精度的太阳能资源图

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04381

**Authors:** J Rabault, ML S{\ae}tra, A Dobler, S Eastwood, E Berge

arXiv:2501.04381v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In the present work, we collect solar irradiance and atmospheric condition data from several products, obtained from both numerical models (ERA5 and NORA3) and satellite observations (CMSAF-SARAH3). We then train simple supervised Machine Learning (ML) data fusion models, using these products as predictors and direct in-situ Global Horizontal Irradiance (GHI) measurements over Norway as ground-truth. We show that combining these products by applying our trained ML models provides a GHI estimate that is significantly more accurate than that obtained from any product taken individually. Using the trained models, we generate a 30-year ML-corrected map of GHI over Norway, which we release as a new open data product. Our ML-based data fusion methodology could be applied, after suitable training and input data selection, to any geographic area on Earth.


---
# DeepVIVONet: Using deep neural operators to optimize sensor locations with application to vortex-induced vibrations

## DeepVIVONet: 使用深度神经算子优化传感器位置，并应用于涡激振动

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04105

**Authors:** Ruyin Wan, Ehsan Kharazmi, Michael S Triantafyllou, George Em Karniadakis

arXiv:2501.04105v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We introduce DeepVIVONet, a new framework for optimal dynamic reconstruction and forecasting of the vortex-induced vibrations (VIV) of a marine riser, using field data. We demonstrate the effectiveness of DeepVIVONet in accurately reconstructing the motion of an off--shore marine riser by using sparse spatio-temporal measurements. We also show the generalization of our model in extrapolating to other flow conditions via transfer learning, underscoring its potential to streamline operational efficiency and enhance predictive accuracy. The trained DeepVIVONet serves as a fast and accurate surrogate model for the marine riser, which we use in an outer--loop optimization algorithm to obtain the optimal locations for placing the sensors. Furthermore, we employ an existing sensor placement method based on proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) to compare with our data-driven approach. We find that that while POD offers a good approach for initial sensor placement, DeepVIVONet's adaptive capabilities yield more precise and cost-effective configurations.


---
# Quantum Machine Learning of Molecular Energies with Hybrid Quantum-Neural Wavefunction

## 具有混合量子-神经波函数的分子能量的量子机器学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04264

**Authors:** Weitang Li, Shi-Xin Zhang, Zirui Sheng, Cunxi Gong, Jianpeng Chen, Zhigang Shuai

arXiv:2501.04264v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum computational chemistry holds great promise for simulating molecular systems more efficiently than classical methods by leveraging quantum bits to represent molecular wavefunctions. However, current implementations face significant limitations in accuracy due to hardware noise and algorithmic constraints. To overcome these challenges, we introduce a hybrid framework that learns molecular wavefunction using a combination of an efficient quantum circuit and a deep neural network. This approach enhances computational efficiency and accuracy, surpassing traditional quantum computational chemistry methods. Numerical benchmarking on molecular systems shows that our hybrid quantum-neural wavefunction approach achieves near-chemical accuracy, comparable to advanced quantum and classical techniques. Experimental validation on a superconducting quantum computer, using the isomerization reaction of cyclobutadiene, further demonstrates its practical applicability, with high accuracy in energy estimation and significant resilience to noise.


---
# Cluster & Disperse: a general air conflict resolution heuristic using unsupervised learning

## 聚类和分散: 使用无监督学习的通用空中冲突解决启发式方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04281

**Authors:** Mirmojtaba Gharibi, John-Paul Clarke

arXiv:2501.04281v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We provide a general and malleable heuristic for the air conflict resolution problem. This heuristic is based on a new neighborhood structure for searching the solution space of trajectories and flight-levels. Using unsupervised learning, the core idea of our heuristic is to cluster the conflict points and disperse them in various flight levels. Our first algorithm is called Cluster & Disperse and in each iteration it assigns the most problematic flights in each cluster to another flight-level. In effect, we shuffle them between the flight-levels until we achieve a well-balanced configuration. The Cluster & Disperse algorithm then uses any horizontal plane conflict resolution algorithm as a subroutine to solve these well-balanced instances. Nevertheless, we develop a novel algorithm for the horizontal plane based on a similar idea. That is we cluster and disperse the conflict points spatially in the same flight level using the gradient descent and a social force. We use a novel maneuver making flights travel on an arc instead of a straight path which is based on the aviation routine of the Radius to Fix legs. Our algorithms can handle a high density of flights within a reasonable computation time. We put their performance in context with some notable algorithms from the literature. Being a general framework, a particular strength of the Cluster & Disperse is its malleability in allowing various constraints regarding the aircraft or the environment to be integrated with ease. This is in contrast to the models for instance based on mixed integer programming.


---
# The unbearable lightness of Restricted Boltzmann Machines: Theoretical Insights and Biological Applications

## 受限玻尔兹曼机器的难以承受的轻盈: 理论见解和生物学应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04387

**Authors:** Giovanni di Sarra, Barbara Bravi, Yasser Roudi

arXiv:2501.04387v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Restricted Boltzmann Machines are simple yet powerful neural networks. They can be used for learning structure in data, and are used as a building block of more complex neural architectures. At the same time, their simplicity makes them easy to use, amenable to theoretical analysis, yielding interpretable models in applications. Here, we focus on reviewing the role that the activation functions, describing the input-output relationship of single neurons in RBM, play in the functionality of these models. We discuss recent theoretical results on the benefits and limitations of different activation functions. We also review applications to biological data analysis, namely neural data analysis, where RBM units are mostly taken to have sigmoid activation functions and binary units, to protein data analysis and immunology where non-binary units and non-sigmoid activation functions have recently been shown to yield important insights into the data. Finally, we discuss open problems addressing which can shed light on broader issues in neural network research.


---
# Chondrule dust rim growth: Influence of restructuring using molecular dynamics simulations

## 软骨尘埃边缘的生长: 使用分子动力学模拟进行重组的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04625

**Authors:** Chuchu Xiang, Nina Merkert, Lorin S. Matthews, Augusto Carballido, Truell W. Hyde

arXiv:2501.04625v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We investigate the influence of disruptive collisions on chondrule rim growth, emphasizing the role of kinetic energy in determining the outcomes of these interactions. We establish a threshold of approximately 10 cm/s for the "hit-and-stick" collision regime, beyond which significant changes occur in the structure of rimmed chondrules. Our findings highlight that at low collision energies (KE $< 10^{-12}$ J), minimal structural alteration takes place, while higher energies (KE up to $10^{-10}$ J) lead to compaction of the rim, reducing both its thickness and porosity. Collisions with energies exceeding $10^{-8}$ J result in the complete disruption of the rim, with particles being expelled from it. These results are correlated with the turbulence levels within the disk, as kinetic energy scales with the relative velocities of colliding particles. Leveraging machine learning models trained on our collision data, we predict changes in rim characteristics and employ these predictions in a Monte Carlo simulation to explore rim growth dynamics. Our simulations reveal that rim development is sustained in low-turbulence environments ($\alpha \leq 10^{-5}$), while intermediate turbulence levels ($\alpha$ = $10^{-3}$ to $10^{-4}$) lead to erosion, preventing further rim accumulation in high-turbulence contexts.


---
# Efficient Online Quantum Circuit Learning with No Upfront Training

## 无需前期培训的高效在线量子电路学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04636

**Authors:** Tom O'Leary, Piotr Czarnik, Elijah Pelofske, Andrew T. Sornborger, Michael McKerns, Lukasz Cincio

arXiv:2501.04636v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We propose a surrogate-based method for optimizing parameterized quantum circuits which is designed to operate with few calls to a quantum computer. We employ a computationally inexpensive classical surrogate to approximate the cost function of a variational quantum algorithm. An initial surrogate is fit to data obtained by sparse sampling of the true cost function using noisy quantum computers. The surrogate is iteratively refined by querying the true cost at the surrogate optima, then using radial basis function interpolation with existing and new true cost data. The use of radial basis function interpolation enables surrogate construction without hyperparameters to pre-train. Additionally, using the surrogate as an acquisition function focuses hardware queries in the vicinity of the true optima. For 16-qubit random 3-regular Max-Cut problems solved using the QAOA ansatz, we find that our method outperforms the prior state of the art. Furthermore, we demonstrate successful optimization of QAOA circuits for 127-qubit random Ising models on an IBM quantum processor using measurement counts of the order of $10^4-10^5$. The strong empirical performance of this approach is an important step towards the large-scale practical application of variational quantum algorithms and a clear demonstration of the effectiveness of classical-surrogate-based learning approaches.


---
# A Novel Highly Parallelizable Machine-Learning Based Method for the Fast Solution of Integral Equations for Electromagnetic Scattering Problems

## 一种新的高度可并行化的基于机器学习的方法，用于快速求解电磁散射问题的积分方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04684

**Authors:** Enes Ko\c{c}, Mert Kalfa, Secil E. Dogan, Vakur B. Ert\"urk

arXiv:2501.04684v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We propose a novel method for the efficient and accurate iterative solution of frequency domain integral equations (IEs) that are used for large/multi-scale electromagnetic scattering problems. The proposed method uses a novel group-by-group interaction strategy to accurately evaluate far-zone interactions within the framework of the one-box-buffer scheme during the matrix-vector multiplication at each iteration. Briefly, subdomain basis functions that are used to model the scatterer at each box are represented by a fixed number of uniformly distributed and arbitrarily oriented Hertzian dipoles (referred to as uniform basis functions), and then the dipole-to-dipole interactions are predicted in a group-wise manner by employing machine learning algorithms, thereby showcasing efficiency, strong scalability for parallelization and accuracy without the low-frequency breakdown (LFB) problem. Since the dipole representation is independent of the underlying material properties of the scatterer, the proposed method is valid for all types of IEs (surface or volume). Moreover, because the training is performed offline, the resulting networks can be used for any scatterer under any IE, without extra training, as long as the size of, and the distances among the boxes are preserved. The efficiency and accuracy of the proposed method are assessed by comparing our results with those obtained from the conventional multilevel fast multipole algorithm for various scattering problems. The proposed method's parallelization performance is showcased through scalability tests, and its resilience to LFB is demonstrated.


---
# Active learning of data-assimilation closures using Graph Neural Networks

## 使用图神经网络主动学习数据同化闭包

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.03806

**Authors:** Michele Quattromini, Michele Alessandro Bucci, Stefania Cherubini, Onofrio Semeraro

arXiv:2303.03806v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The spread of machine learning techniques coupled with the availability of high-quality experimental and numerical data has significantly advanced numerous applications in fluid mechanics. Notable among these are the development of data assimilation and closure models for unsteady and turbulent flows employing neural networks (NN). Despite their widespread use, these methods often suffer from overfitting and typically require extensive datasets, particularly when not incorporating physical constraints. This becomes compelling in the context of numerical simulations, where, given the high computational costs, it is crucial to establish learning procedures that are effective even with a limited dataset. Here, we tackle those limitations by developing NN models capable of generalizing over unseen data in low-data limit by: i) incorporating invariances into the NN model using a Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) architecture; and ii) devising an adaptive strategy for the selection of the data utilized in the learning process. GNNs are particularly well-suited for numerical simulations involving unstructured domain discretization and we demonstrate their use by interfacing them with a Finite Elements (FEM) solver for the supervised learning of Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes equations. We consider as a test-case the data-assimilation of meanflows past generic bluff bodies, at different Reynolds numbers 50>=Re>=150, characterized by an unsteady dynamics. We show that the GNN models successfully predict the closure term; remarkably, these performances are achieved using a very limited dataset selected through an active learning process ensuring the generalization properties of the RANS closure term. The results suggest that GNN models trained through active learning procedures are a valid alternative to less flexible techniques such as convolutional NN.


---
# Classifying acoustic cavitation with machine learning trained on multiple physical models

## 通过在多个物理模型上训练的机器学习对声空化进行分类

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16142

**Authors:** Trinidad Gatica, Elwin van 't Wout, Reza Haqshenas

arXiv:2408.16142v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Acoustic cavitation threshold charts are used to map between acoustic parameters (mainly intensity and frequency) and different regimes of acoustic cavitation. The two main regimes are transient cavitation, where a bubble collapses, and stable cavitation, where a bubble undergoes periodic oscillations without collapse. The cavitation charts strongly depend on the physical model used to compute the bubble dynamics and the algorithm for classifying the cavitation threshold. The differences between modeling approaches become especially noticeable for resonant bubbles and when sonication parameters result in large-amplitude oscillations. This paper proposes a machine learning approach that integrates three physical models, i.e., the Rayleigh-Plesset, Keller-Miksis and Gilmore equations, and multiple cavitation classification techniques. Specifically, we classify the cavitation regimes based on the maximum radius, the acoustic Mach number, the kurtosis factor of acoustic emissions, and the Flynn criterion on the inertial and pressure functions. Four machine learning strategies were developed to predict the likelihood of the transient and stable cavitation, using equally weighted contributions from classification techniques. By solving the differential equations for bubble dynamics across a range of sonication and material parameters and applying cross-validation on held-out test data, our framework demonstrates high predictive accuracy for cavitation regimes. This physics-informed machine-learning approach offers probabilistic insights into cavitation likelihood, combining diverse physical models and classification strategies, each contributing different levels of physical rigor and interpretability.


---
# SOLAX: A Python solver for fermionic quantum systems with neural network support

## SOLAX: 具有神经网络支持的费米子量子系统的Python求解器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16915

**Authors:** Louis Thirion, Philipp Hansmann, Pavlo Bilous

arXiv:2408.16915v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Numerical modeling of fermionic many-body quantum systems presents similar challenges across various research domains, necessitating universal tools, including state-of-the-art machine learning techniques. Here, we introduce SOLAX, a Python library designed to compute and analyze fermionic quantum systems using the formalism of second quantization. SOLAX provides a modular framework for constructing and manipulating basis sets, quantum states, and operators, facilitating the simulation of electronic structures and determining many-body quantum states in finite-size Hilbert spaces. The library integrates machine learning capabilities to mitigate the exponential growth of Hilbert space dimensions in large quantum clusters. The core low-level functionalities are implemented using the recently developed Python library JAX. Demonstrated through its application to the Single Impurity Anderson Model, SOLAX offers a flexible and powerful tool for researchers addressing the challenges of many-body quantum systems across a broad spectrum of fields, including atomic physics, quantum chemistry, and condensed matter physics.


---
# Garbage in Garbage out: Impacts of data quality on criminal network intervention

## 垃圾中的垃圾: 数据质量对犯罪网络干预的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01508

**Authors:** Wang Ngai Yeung, Riccardo Di Clemente, Renaud Lambiotte

arXiv:2501.01508v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Criminal networks such as human trafficking rings are threats to the rule of law, democracy and public safety in our global society. Network science provides invaluable tools to identify key players and design interventions for Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs), e.g., to dismantle their organisation. However, poor data quality and the adaptiveness of criminal networks through self-organization make effective disruption extremely challenging. Although there exists a large body of work building and applying network scientific tools to attack criminal networks, these work often implicitly assume that the network measurements are accurate and complete. Moreover, there is thus far no comprehensive understanding of the impacts of data quality on the downstream effectiveness of interventions. This work investigates the relationship between data quality and intervention effectiveness based on classical graph theoretic and machine learning-based approaches. Decentralization emerges as a major factor in network robustness, particularly under conditions of incomplete data, which renders attack strategies largely ineffective. Moreover, the robustness of centralized networks can be boosted using simple heuristics, making targeted attack more infeasible. Consequently, we advocate for a more cautious application of network science in disrupting criminal networks, the continuous development of an interoperable intelligence ecosystem, and the creation of novel network inference techniques to address data quality challenges.


---
# Predicting the dynamics of a gas pocket during breaking wave impacts using machine learning

## 使用机器学习预测破碎波冲击过程中气穴的动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03641

**Authors:** Rodrigo Ezeta, Bulent D\"uz

arXiv:2501.03641v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We investigate the feasibility and accuracy of a machine learning model to predict the dynamics of a gas pocket that is formed when a breaking wave impacts on a solid wall. The proposed ML model is based on the convolutional long short-term memory structure and is trained with experimental data. In particular, it takes as input two high-speed camera snapshots before impact and produces as output six scalars that describe the dynamics of the gas pocket. The experiments are performed in a wave flume, where we use solitons -- in combination with a bathymetry profile -- to generate wave breaking close to a solid wall which is instrumented with dynamic pressure sensors. By varying the water depth $h_\ell$ and the parameter $\alpha = A/h_\ell$, where $A$ is the soliton wave amplitude, we are able to generate a family of unique breaking waves with different gas pocket sizes and wave kinematics. In this so-called phase space of wave generation ($h_\ell$, $\alpha$), we perform experiments on 67 different wave states that form our dataset. Experimentally, we find that the frequency of oscillation of the gas pocket can be attributed to the initial volume of gas plus a geometric correction and that the maximum and minimum pressures are qualitatively well captured by the one-dimensional Bagnold model. In terms of the ML model, we compare its performance to the experimental data and find that the model quantitatively reproduces the trends found in the experiments -- in particular for the maximum and minimum pressure in the gas pocket and the frequency of oscillation.


---
# CrystalFlow: A Flow-Based Generative Model for Crystalline Materials

## CrystalFlow: 一种基于流的晶体材料生成模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11693

**Authors:** Xiaoshan Luo, Zhenyu Wang, Jian Lv, Lei Wang, Yanchao Wang, Yanming Ma

arXiv:2412.11693v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Deep learning-based generative models have emerged as powerful tools for modeling complex data distributions and generating high-fidelity samples, offering a transformative approach to efficiently explore the configuration space of crystalline materials. In this work, we present CrystalFlow, a flow-based generative model specifically developed for the generation of crystalline materials. CrystalFlow constructs Continuous Normalizing Flows to model lattice parameters, atomic coordinates, and/or atom types, which are trained using Conditional Flow Matching techniques. Through an appropriate choice of data representation and the integration of a graph-based equivariant neural network, the model effectively captures the fundamental symmetries of crystalline materials, which ensures data-efficient learning and enables high-quality sampling. Our experiments demonstrate that CrystalFlow achieves state-of-the-art performance across standard generation benchmarks, and exhibits versatile conditional generation capabilities including producing structures optimized for specific external pressures or desired material properties. These features highlight the model's potential to address realistic crystal structure prediction challenges, offering a robust and efficient framework for advancing data-driven research in condensed matter physics and material science.


---
# Deep learning optimal molecular scintillators for dark matter direct detection

## 用于暗物质直接探测的深度学习最优分子闪烁体

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00091

**Authors:** Cameron Cook, Carlos Blanco, Juri Smirnov

arXiv:2501.00091v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Direct searches for sub-GeV dark matter are limited by the intrinsic quantum properties of the target material. In this proof-of-concept study, we argue that this problem is particularly well suited for machine learning. We demonstrate that a simple neural architecture consisting of a variational autoencoder and a multi-layer perceptron can efficiently generate unique molecules with desired properties. In specific, the energy threshold and signal (quantum) efficiency determine the minimum mass and cross section to which a detector can be sensitive. Organic molecules present a particularly interesting class of materials with intrinsically anisotropic electronic responses and $\mathcal{O}$(few) eV excitation energies. However, the space of possible organic compounds is intractably large, which makes traditional database screening challenging. We adopt excitation energies and proxy transition matrix elements as target properties learned by our network. Our model is able to generate molecules that are not in even the most expansive quantum chemistry databases and predict their relevant properties for high-throughput and efficient screening. Following a massive generation of novel molecules, we use clustering analysis to identify some of the most promising molecular structures that optimise the desired molecular properties for dark matter detection.


---
# Transferable predictions of energetic and structural properties for refractory solid solution alloys across chemical compositions

## 跨化学成分的难熔固溶体合金的能量和结构特性的可转移预测

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-3lrwh?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Ying, Yang

We present a data-efficient approach to train graph neural networks (GNNs) on density functional theory (DFT) data for accurate and transferable predictions of energetic and structural properties of refractory solid solution alloys in the niobium-tantalum-vanadium (Nb-Ta-V) chemical space.  We start by training the GNN model only on DFT data that describes refractory binary alloys niobium-tantalum (Nb-Ta), niobium-vanadium (Nb-V), and tantalum-vanadium (Ta-V) to predict formation enthalpy and root mean squared displacement. Once trained, the GNN predictions are tested on DFT data describing refractory ternary alloys Nb-Ta-V. While, unsurprisingly, direct transferability from binary to ternary is not sufficiently accurate, augmenting the training with only 1% of the available ternary data (uniformly distributed across the entire range of chemical compositions) improves significantly the quality of the GNN predictions. For comparison, we assess the transferability in the opposite direction by training GNN models on ternary Nb-Ta-V data and making predictions on binaries Nb-Ta, Nb-V, and Ta-V, which exhibits notably higher predictive errors.  The proposed methodology, which favors transferability from lower-component to higher-component alloys, offers an efficient path towards avoiding the curse of dimensionality incurred when collecting DFT data for discovery and design of multi-component disordered alloys.


---
# Classification of apricot varieties by infrared spectroscopy and machine learning

## 基于红外光谱与机器学习的杏品种分类研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-f76xt?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Frédéric , Cadet

This work aimed to investigate using ATR-FTIR spectroscopy combined with machine learning to classify eight apricot varieties. Traditionally, variety identification relies on physicochemical property measurements, which are time-consuming and require laboratory analysis. Instead, we used the ATR-FTIR spectra from 731 apricots divided into calibration (512) and test (219) sets and three machine learning models (i.e., partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), support vector machine (SVM), and random forest (RF)) to accurately predict 97% of the test samples. Additionally, careful inspection of the PLS-DA regression vectors revealed a strong correlation between the spectra and physicochemical properties, validating ATR-FTIR spectroscopy as a viable alternative for variety identification. Finally, to validate the results, additional models were constructed using the physicochemical data from the apricots. These reference models were then tested using the same data splits as the spectroscopic data used as a referent method, obtaining similar results with both approaches.


---
# Autonomous Organic Synthesis for Redox Flow Batteries via Flexible Batch Bayesian Optimization

## 通过灵活的批量贝叶斯优化实现氧化还原液流电池的自主有机合成

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-l1bzs?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Shijing , Sun

Traditional trial-and-error methods for materials discovery are too slow to meet the urgent demands posed by the rapid progression of climate change. This urgency has driven the increasing interest in integrating robotics and machine learning into materials research to accelerate experimental learning. However, idealized decision-making frameworks to achieve maximum sampling efficiency are not always compatible with high-throughput experimental workflows inside a laboratory. For multistep chemical processes, differences in hardware capacities can complicate the digital framework by introducing constraints on the maximum number of samples in each step of the experiment, hence causing varying batch sizes in variable selection within the same batch. Therefore, designing flexible sampling algorithms is necessary to accommodate the multi-step synthesis with practical sampling constraints unique to each high-throughput workflow. In this work, we designed and employed three strategies on a high-throughput robotic platform to optimize the sulfonation reaction of redox-active molecules used in flow batteries. Our strategies adapt to the multi-step experimental workflow, where their formulation and heating steps are separate, causing varying batch size requirements. By strategically sampling using clustering and mixed-variable batch Bayesian optimization, we were able to iteratively identify optimal conditions that maximize the yields. Our work presents a new approach that allows tailoring the ML decision-making to suit the practical constraints in individual HTP platforms, followed by performing resource-efficient yield optimization using already existing and available open-source Python libraries.


---
# peptidy: A light-weight Python library for peptide representation in machine learning

## Peptody: 机器学习中肽表示的轻量级Python库

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-bm3lv-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Francesca, Grisoni

In this work, we introduce peptidy -- a lightweight Python library that facilitates converting peptides (expressed as aminoacid sequences) to numerical representations suited to machine learning. peptidy is free from external dependencies, integrates seamlessly into modern Python environments, and supports a range of encoding strategies suitable for both predictive and generative machine learning approaches. Additionally, peptidy supports peptides with post-translational modifications, such as phosphorylation, acetylation, and methylation, thereby extending the functionality of existing Python packages for peptides and proteins. peptidy is freely available with a permissive license on GitHub at the following URL: https://github.com/molML/peptidy


---
# Socio-Economic Circumstances of Children with Disabilities in Zimbabwe in the face of COVID-19 pandemic in Rujeko High Density, Masvingo, Zimbabwe

## 面对津巴布韦Masvingo Rujeko高密度COVID-19大流行，津巴布韦残疾儿童的社会经济状况

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5706210/latest

The article discusses the socioeconomic challenges encountered by children with disabilities in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic in Rujeko High-Density suburb, Masvingo Province. The study adopted a qualitative methodology, punctuated by a case study research designs to have a deeper understanding of the realities of children with disabilities. Utilising a social model conceptual framework, children with disabilities live secluded lives due to exclusion and discrimination. The study was motivated by a lack of attention towards challenges encountered by children with disabilities in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. Research findings suggest that some of the challenges included; lack of access to online learning, transportation challenges and limited mobility at schools. Removing these barriers should not be a charitable act but rather a mandate to ensure their well-being. The children with disabilities were also employing different copying strategies which include, debrief from friend, begging for learning material and making attempts to benefit from public Wi-Fi hotspots.


---
# Motion-driven Adaptive Frame Selection Strategy for Video Action Recognition

## 运动驱动的视频动作识别自适应帧选择策略

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5495634/latest

Frame selection is a fundamental issue in video action recognition. It aims to minimize temporal redundancy and reduce computational cost. Current frame sampling strategies either rely on uniform sampling based on motion, lacking emphasis on discriminative frames, or employ complex learning models or additional modal information, compromising generalizability. To address these challenges, this paper presents an adaptive frame selection strategy. It filters redundant frames through motion information and models relationships between each frame and others, thereby predicting the significance of each frame. This strategy combines the advantages of motion prior information and supervised learning. During training, frame importance-related constraints are integrated, guiding frames selection with strong discriminative features as inputs for the action recognition network. This frame selection method is integrated with backbone network structures such as TDN, GCTDN, AIM, and tested on three action datasets, Diving-48, UCF101 and HMDB51.The improvement on action recognition achieved is 4.4% on the Diving-48 dataset, 1.9% on the UCF101 dataset and 2.3% on HMDB51 dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that our selection strategy can be integrated with state-of-the-art action recognition models, leading to improved recognition performance.


---
# Context is Learned, not Given

## 上下文是学习的，而不是给定的

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5682968/latest

The saying "context is everything" underscores the importance of interpreting things, be they quotes, events, actions, or stimuli, not in isolation but in the light of a bigger picture - their context. This is evident even in fundamental forms of learning such as extinction learning where, in contextual renewal, an extinguished response reoccurs if the context is changed. But what exactly is context? Is context given by stimuli with inherent properties making them context or, what are the circumstances that allow a stimulus to become &ldquo;contextual&rdquo;? Even though the answer may seem intuitively trivial, the literature only provides competing and vague definitions. Using a novel paradigm in pigeons, we directly assessed competing stimuli in their ability to induce contextual renewal during extinction learning. Furthermore, we controlled the timing of these stimuli and found it to be crucial; with the right contiguity, even small local stimuli resulted in the strongest contextual renewal. This result challenges definitions of context as &lsquo;a backdrop where learning occurs&rsquo;. Instead, we propose that context can be understood mechanistically as a learned stimulus property. Therefore, context truly is everything and anything.


---
# G2PDeep-v2: a web-based deep-learning framework for phenotype prediction and biomarker discovery for all organisms using multi-omics data

## G2PDeep-v2: 一个基于网络的深度学习框架，用于使用多组学数据对所有生物进行表型预测和生物标志物发现

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5776937/latest

The G2PDeep-v2 server is a web-based platform powered by deep learning, for phenotype prediction and markers discovery from multi-omics data in any organisms including humans, plants, animals, and viruses. The server provides multiple services for researchers to create deep-learning models through an interactive interface and train these models using an automated hyperparameter tuning algorithm on high-performance computing resources. Users can visualize the results of phenotype and markers predictions and perform Gene Set Enrichment Analysis for the significant markers to provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying complex diseases, conditions and other biological phenotypes being studied. The G2PDeep-v2 server is publicly available at https://g2pdeep.org/ and can be utilized for all organisms.


---
# Structural optimization for the frame structures based on the DNN models and Bayesian optimization method in generative design

## 基于生成式设计中DNN模型和贝叶斯优化方法的框架结构优化

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5697471/latest

This study presents a framework to evaluate the structural optimization of the frame structures based on the Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), numerical simulations, and Bayesian optimization method. The developed deep learning-based (DNN) models are developed with the input data obtained from the numerical simulations, and the performance outputs of mass (M), displacement (D), and safety factor (FS), which are able to achieve accurate predictions of nonlinear structure-parameters relationships using deep neural networks. The optimized designs with optimization objectives as deflection is obtained efficiently and precisely using Bayesian Optimization algorithm. Moreover, the present study demonstrates that the DNN-based model integrated with generative design outcomes and Bayesian optimization algorithm can provide a promising tool for the design and optimization of frame structures in product design.


---
# Trust and the Future of Learning: A Model for AI-Supported Edtech in Higher Education

## 信任与学习的未来: 高等教育中AI支持的Edtech模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5675462/latest

The current study sought to investigate behavioral factors that affect students&amp;rsquo; trust perception in using AI-supported Edtech in a postsecondary institution. A model and research hypotheses were developed based on extensive literature and theoretical reviews on technology acceptance theories to affirm the nature of the hypotheses for the study. The Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) was adopted as the model for the current study by expanding it with trust, and perceived risk. Data was collected from students at the studying at a public institution in Ontario, Canada. The data collected were analyzed using structural equation modelling (SEM) techniques to affirm the study hypotheses. The findings revealed that all the independent variables of Perceived Compatibility, Ease of Use, Usefulness, Facilitating Condition, Risk, and Subjective Norms had a significant and positive influence on students' Trust perception in using AI-supported Edtech. By examining the influential factors of students' behavioral intention to use Edtech, this study will practically position academicians and policymakers in higher educational institutions in their quest to invest in AI-supported Edtech to prioritize variables aimed at influencing students' trust perception to use AI-supported Edtech.


---
# A lightweight methodology for Motor Imagery EEG classification utilizing step scaled wavelet fractals and Bi-LSTM architecture

## 利用分步小波分形和bi-lstm架构进行运动图像EEG分类的轻量级方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5750495/latest

Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) represents a cutting-edge area of research that integrates neuroscience, engineering, and computer science to establish direct communication links between the human brain and external systems. BCI-based technologies hold significant promise, particularly in the development of prosthetic devices. However, the practical application of BCI in real-time scenarios faces several obstacles, including bulky models, noise interference, artifacts, and the complexity of motor imagery (MI) electroencephalogram (EEG) data, which exhibits both inter-subject and intra-subject variability. To address these challenges, the proposed algorithm utilizes loading and pre-processing of MI EEG, extracts their common spatial patterns, calculates the continuous wavelet transform (CWT) coefficients, computes their proposed step scaled mean wavelet fractals which exhibits robustness towards inherent noises and artifacts, calculates the cross-correlation matrix at different scale for all channels and observes the evolution in cross-correlation matrices with the help of customized Bi-long-short term memory (Bi-LSTM) neural network to classify MI EEG. The customized Bi-LSTM architecture had the size&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;10MB showing the effectiveness of methodology for MI EEG classification utilizing embedded based devices. The best classification accuracies achieved with proposed step scaled mean wavelet fractals were 87.75% and 85.45% for intra-subject as well as 76.16% and 71.76% for inter-subject on BCI Competition IV 2b and 2a respectively; the comparative analysis with earlier state of the art methods showed an average improvement of 2.28% and 2.33% for intra-subject as well as 0.22% and 3.21% for inter-subject in accuracy.


---
# Exploring the Role of AI-Driven Dynamic Writing Platforms in Improving  EFL Learners' Writing Skills and Fostering Their Motivation

## 探索AI驱动的动态写作平台在提高英语学习者写作技能和培养动机方面的作用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5788599/latest

AI-powered platforms for dynamic writing present transformative opportunities to enhance English language acquisition and actively engage learners in writing tasks. However, the role of artificial intelligence in improving writing proficiency and fostering motivation among English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learners remains an area that has yet to be thoroughly investigated. This research endeavor seeks to address the prevailing knowledge gap in the field by exploring the influence of AI-powered writing platforms on the writing skills of EFL learners. The study's objectives encompass the assessment of the impact of these platforms on coherence, vocabulary usage, grammatical accuracy, task accomplishment, and learner motivation. Utilizing a mixed-methods approach, the study examined 65 intermediate EFL students from the Islamic Azad University, Varamin-Pishva branch, who were divided into two groups: one employed AI-powered tools, while the other followed traditional classroom-based writing exercises. Quantitative data were gathered via IELTS-based assessments and motivation scales, while qualitative insights were derived from semi-structured interviews. The findings revealed substantial enhancements in the AI group across all measured dimensions in comparison to the control group. Additionally, the AI group demonstrated a significant surge in motivation levels. Learners in the AI group reported positive attitudes toward AI-based instruction, citing improvements in engagement, autonomy, and confidence in their writing. The platform also fostered greater self-regulation and personalized learning experiences, which participants found effective and enjoyable. The findings emphasize the efficacy of AI-based writing platforms in enhancing linguistic proficiency and motivational levels among EFL learners. The study provides practical insights for incorporating AI technologies into writing instruction, encouraging educators to leverage such tools for more effective and engaging language learning practices.


---
# Building Machine Learning Predictive Models for Adolescent Internet Addiction: Key Findings on Self-Esteem and Resilience Interaction

## 构建青少年网络成瘾的机器学习预测模型: 关于自尊和弹性相互作用的关键发现

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5606509/latest

Objective: Internet addiction (IA) is a significant mental health concern among adolescents. This study aimed to develop machine learning (ML)-based predictive models to identify and explain key risk factors for IA.
Method: A total of 8176 junior high school students from Henan Province were surveyed from April to May 2023. The dataset was randomly divided into training and test sets in an 8:2 ratio. Four ML algorithms were used to predict IA, and feature importance was determined using SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP). The XGBoost model, which achieved the highest area under the curve (AUC), was selected for detailed analysis and individualized prediction explanations.
Results: The five most important predictors of IA were negative life events, self-esteem, school connectedness, parent-adolescent cohesion, and psychological resilience. Importantly, an interaction effect was found between self-esteem and psychological resilience: as self-esteem increased, the influence of low resilience transitioned from being a risk factor to a protective factor against IA.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates the power of ML models combined with SHAP for predicting IA and identifying its psychosocial determinants. The findings highlight the critical interplay of self-esteem and psychological resilience, offering valuable insights for clinicians and educators in addressing IA among adolescents.


---
# Application of Wings Interferential Patterns (WIPs) and Deep Learning (DL) to classify some Culex. spp (Culicidae) of medical or veterinary importance

## 应用翅膀干扰模式 (WIPs) 和深度学习 (DL) 对一些库蚊进行分类。具有医学或兽医重要性的spp (Culicidae)

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5543317/latest

In this paper, we test the possibility of using Wing Interference Patterns (WIPs) and deep learning (DL) for the identification of Culex mosquitoes species to evaluate the extent to which a generic method could be developed for surveying Dipteran insects of major importance to human health. Previous applications of WIPs and DL have successfully demonstrated their utility in identifying&nbsp; Anopheles, Aedes, sandflies, and tsetse flies, providing the rationale for extending this approach to Culex. Accurate identification of these mosquitoes is crucial for vector-borne disease control, yet traditional methods remain labor-intensive and are often hindered by cryptic species or damaged samples. To address these challenges, we applied WIPs, generated by thin-film interference on wing membranes, in combination with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for species classification. Our results achieved over 99%&nbsp; genus-level accuracy and up to 100% species-level accuracy. Nonetheless, challenges with underrepresented species emphasize the need for larger datasets and complementary techniques such as molecular barcoding. This study highlights the potential of WIPs and DL to enhance mosquito identification and contribute to scalable tools for broader surveys of health-relevant Dipteran insects.


---
# Short-Term Solar Irradiance and Power Forecasting in Uncertain Photovoltaic Systems

## 不确定光伏系统中的短期太阳辐照度和功率预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5766097/latest

Renewable energy (RE), while essential for the energy transition, poses significant challenges due to its variability and reliance on environmental factors , such as sunlight availability for Grid-Connected Photovoltaic (GCPV) systems. This intermittent nature complicates maintaining a stable balance between energy production and demand. To address these challenges, Energy Management (EM) plays a vital role in enabling optimal planning and resource allocation. In this context, forecasting becomes crucial for predicting production fluctuations and supporting proactive decision-making. Short-term forecasting, in particular, facilitates quick anticipation of variations and real-time adaptation of management strategies.&amp;nbsp;
This study proposes a Feedforward Neural Network (FFNN) model for short-term forecasting in renewable energy systems, effectively addressing variability challenges. By incorporating prediction intervals, the model ensures accurate predictions with quantified uncertainty. The model demonstrates high performance, with irradiance Mean Absolute Error (MAE) ranging between 0.3115 and 0.3506, Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) between 0.4061 and 0.4802, and R 2 of 1.00. For power, the MAE ranges from 7.0136 to 7.8298, RMSE from 8.2715 to 9.2084, and R 2 of 0.99, underscoring its reliability for energy management applications.


---
# Enhancing Crop Classification through Remote Sensing: Landsat 8-9 Fusion and Feature Selection

## 通过遥感增强作物分类: Landsat 8-9融合和特征选择

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5710241/latest

Remote sensing offers a highly effective method for obtaining accurate information on total cropped area and crop types. The study focuses on crop cover identification for irrigated regions of Central Punjab. Data collection was executed in two stages: the first involved identifying and geocoding six target crops through field surveys conducted in January and February 2023. The second stage involved acquiring Landsat 8-9 imagery for each geocoded field to construct a labeled dataset. The satellite imagery underwent extensive pre-processing, including radiometric calibration for reflectance values, atmospheric correction, and georeferencing verification to ensure consistency within a common coordinate system. Subsequently, image fusion techniques were applied to combine spectral bands from both Landsat 8 and 9, creating a composite image with enhanced spectral information, followed by contrast enhancement. During data acquisition , farmers were interviewed, and fields were meticulously mapped using GPS instruments, resulting in a comprehensive dataset of 50,835 data points. This dataset facilitated the extraction of vegetation indices such as NDVI, SAVO, RECI, and NDRE. These indices, along with raw reflectance values, were utilized for classification modeling using conventional classifiers, ensemble learning, and artificial neural networks. Additionally, a feature selection approach was incorporated to identify the optimal feature set for classification learning. This study demonstrates the effectiveness of combining remote sensing data and 1 advanced modeling techniques to improve crop classification accuracy in irrigated agricultural regions.


---
# Feature-Driven Malware Detection using Cascade Machine Learning Models

## 使用级联机器学习模型的特征驱动的恶意软件检测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5740016/latest

Malware proliferation continues to jeopardize global data security and user privacy, necessitating robust detection and classification mechanisms. In this research, we propose Malware Detection using Cascade Machine Learning (MDCML) classifier designed to detect anomalies in Portable Executable (PE) files and classify them into malware families with high precision. The model integrates three machine learning algorithms such as Random Forest, Bagging and Boosting, fine-tuned through extensive hyperparameter optimization, significantly enhancing detection and classification performance. To extract features from raw textual data, we have utilized a TF-IDF-based inter-class dispersion architecture, transforming unstructured opcode data into structured feature maps that emphasize contextual importance. The model employs gradient descent with regularization to iteratively minimize the loss function and prevent overfitting, achieving sublinear regret and convergence toward optimal performance.The proposed model is validated using the public Big 2015 dataset, which includes approximately 10,000 files spanning nine malware families. The study included comprehensive experimentation on both binary classification (Malware vs. Benign) and multi-class classification tasks. Performance was evaluated across diverse sample sizes, execution times, and optimization strategies to ensure robust analysis. An accuracy of 98.97% highlights the superior performance of the proposed framework over traditional machine learning models, showcasing significant advancements. This research underscores the concept of the hybrid MDCML classifier in improving malware detection and classification, thereby enhancing data security and privacy.


---
# ICO Learning assisted characterization of Transient Chaos in PT-symmetric Li&eacute;nard system

## PT对称李纳德系统瞬态混沌的ICO学习辅助表征

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5748857/latest

In this article, we investigate the implications of the unsupervised learning technique known as Input-Correlations (ICO) learning in the temporal dynamics of two linearly coupled PT-symmetric Li&eacute;nard oscillators. We find that on increasing the amplitude of the external periodic drive, the system exhibits period-doubling cascade to chaos. In the period-4 regime, we observe the emergence of transient chaos which has been further validated by the maximal Finite-Time Lyapunov Exponent (FTLE) and the Hilbert Transform. In the transiently chaotic regime, we deploy ICO learning from which we identify that when there is emergence of transiently chaotic dynamics, the synaptic weight associated with the loss oscillator exhibits stationary temporal evolution. This signifies that in the periodic regime, there is no overlap between the filtered signals obtained from the time-series of the coupled PT-symmetric oscillators. In addition, the temporal evolution of the weight associated with the stimulus mimics the behaviour of the Hilbert transform of the time-series.


---
# Iterative variational learning of committor-consistent transition pathways using artificial neural networks

## 使用人工神经网络对commitor一致的过渡路径进行迭代变分学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5471344/latest

This contribution introduces a neural-network-based approach to discover meaningful transition pathways underlying complex biomolecular transformations in coherence with the committor function. The proposed path-committor-consistent artificial neural network (PCCANN) iteratively refines the transition pathway by aligning it to the gradient of the committor. This method addresses the challenges of sampling in molecular dynamics simulations rare events in high-dimensional spaces, which is often limited computationally. Applied to various benchmark potentials and biological processes such as peptide isomerization and protein-model folding, PCCANN successfully reproduces established dynamics and rate constants, while revealing bifurcations and alternate pathways. By enabling precise estimation of transition states and free-energy barriers, this approach provides a robust framework for enhanced-sampling simulations of rare events in complex biomolecular systems.


---
# SIHDConReg: Continual learning for unsupervised 3D medical image registration via an improved synaptic intelligence

## SIHDConReg: 通过改进的突触智能进行无监督3D医学图像配准的连续学习

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5763877/latest

The ability of machine learning algorithms to generalize to data shifts is essential in medical imaging due to the high accuracy demands in clinical practice. Continual learning algorithms have been leveraged in various medical imaging tasks, primarily image classification and segmentation. In this study, we explore the capabilities of continual learning using synaptic intelligence (SI) regularization in 3D unsupervised medical image registration. We also proposed SIHDConReg, which incorporates hypergradient descent to SI for improved convergence during model optimization. At each optimization iteration of SIHDConReg, SI regularization, SI parameter importance calculation, and adaptive learning rate update are added to the standard Adam loop. Our ablation experiments on three sequences of various medical image registration datasets demonstrated better learning plasticity for SIHDConReg compared to SI alone. Comparison of experiments with simple fine-tuning, and L2 weight regularization implies further improvement can be made to address the stability-plasticity trade-off. However, the small catastrophic forgetting involved in the datasets in this study shows SIHDConReg as a viable learning algorithm to help medical image registration models adapt to data shifts, such as changes in field-of-view and image quality, while retaining most of the prior task knowledge.

