# Fast and scalable finite-element based approach for density functional theory calculations using projector augmented wave method

## 使用投影仪增强波方法进行密度泛函理论计算的快速且可扩展的基于有限元的方法

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.035101

**Authors:** Kartick Ramakrishnan, Sambit Das, and Phani Motamarri

Author(s): Kartick Ramakrishnan, Sambit Das, and Phani Motamarri<br /><p>In this paper, we present a computationally efficient methodology that utilizes a local real-space formulation of the projector augmented wave (PAW) method discretized with a finite-element (FE) basis to enable accurate and large-scale electronic structure calculations. This real-space approach for …</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 035101] Published Thu Jan 02, 2025


---
# Unconventional Nonlinear Hall Effects in Twisted Multilayer 2D Materials

## 扭曲多层2D材料中的非常规非线性霍尔效应

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-lqvsb-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Khaled, Ibrahim

We present the first investigation of unusual nonlinear Hall effects in twisted multilayer 2D materials. Contrary to expectations, our study shows that these nonlinear effects are not merely extensions of their monolayer counterparts. Instead, we find that stacking order and pairwise interactions between neighboring layers, mediated by Berry curvatures, play a pivotal role in shaping their collective nonlinear optical response. By combining large-scale Real-Time Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory (RT-TDDFT) simulations with model Hamiltonian analyses, we demonstrate a remarkable second-harmonic transverse response in hexagonal boron nitride four-layers, even in cases where the total Berry curvature cancels out. Furthermore, our symmetry analysis of the layered structures provides a simplified framework for predicting nonlinear responses in multilayer materials in general. Our investigation challenges the prevailing understanding of nonlinear optical responses in layered materials and opens new avenues for the design and development of advanced materials with tailored optical properties.


---
# Exploiting Transformer-Based Networks and Boosting Algorithms for Ultralow Compressible Boride Design

## 利用基于变压器的网络和Boosting算法进行超低可压缩硼化物设计

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-z6zfd?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Deniz, Cakir

Ultralow compressible materials, which have high bulk modulus (K), are invaluable in extreme conditions due to their ability to undergo significant compression without structural failure. As large number of borides can be found with high K, this study develop a computational framework to scan the vast chemical space to identify the ultralow compressible borides. Transformer-based networks are helpful to generate new chemical compositions due to their self-attention mechanism, scalability, and ability to capture long-range dependencies. First, we developed a transformer-based network to generate new binary and ternary boride compositions based on the known boride compositions. Next, we trained a hybrid model based on AdaBoost and Gradient Boosting algorithms with mean absolute error (MAE) of 14.1 GPa to scan the high K borides. The CALYPSO code was used to find the possible structures for those materials. After predicting K for broad chemical domain, we found that Re-B and W-B systems are promising ultralow compressible materials. We then performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations to investigate the stability of high K materials. Our computations suggest that Re3B2, Re2B3, W5VB4, and Re5CrB4 materials exhibit K > 300 GPa with negative formation energy and energy-above-hull less than 40 meV. Those materials are mechanically and dynamically stable based on the elastic constant calculations and the phonon dispersion.


---
# Thermodynamic Stability and Site-Specific Distribution of Graphitic and Pyridinic Nitrogen in Graphene Moiré on Ru(0001)

## Ru(0001) 上石墨烯莫尔中的石墨和吡啶氮的热力学稳定性和特定位置分布

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-mfhz0?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Zdenek, Dohnálek

Graphene-like materials can be viewed as promising storage media for hydrogen as they are lightweight, durable, and scalable. For practical use, doping is required to overcome the kinetic limitations for diffusion and recombination on surfaces due to the required rehybridization of atoms. We studied the synthesis of nitrogen-doped graphene on Ru(0001) by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of pyridine and N-doping through ion irradiation. Using the combination of scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and density functional theory (DFT) we unambiguously identify the structure and location of the N species within the graphene moiré. The pyridine CVD leads only to a low concentration (<0.1 at%) of N-related sites. Higher concentrations of N-dopants (>10 at%) are subsequently introduced by low-energy ion irradiation. The concentration of graphitic (GN) and pyridinic nitrogen (PN) can be tuned by varying the ion dose and annealing temperature. DFT calculations provide detailed information about the relative thermodynamic stability of GN and PN within the graphene moiré. Measured and simulated STM images of GN and PN yield an excellent agreement, allowing us to confidently establish that GN is preferentially located near the center of the Atop region of the graphene moiré, while PN is located at the boundary between the FCC and HCP region, which are defined by the registry between C and Ru atoms. This report explicitly confirms the site assignments and provides a foundation for the site synthesis and analysis of their structural and electronic properties that drive the thermodynamic stability and reactivity of N-doped graphene.


---
# An efficient exciton coupling scheme based on simplified time-dependent density functional theory

## 基于简化的时变密度泛函理论的高效激子耦合方案

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-d623q?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Francesca, Plückhahn

A very efficient and broadly applicable exciton coupling (ExC) approach based on simplified time-dependent density functional theory (sTD-DFT) is presented. Starting from this parent method, non-overlapping fragments and neglect of interfragment charge transfer excitations are assumed to arrive at the ExC procedure. This leads to an ExC Hamiltonian that pro- vides equivalent electronic absorption and circular dichroism spectra as the parent sTD-DFT method for largely separated fragments. The ExC approach easily accelerates the computa- tion of such spectra of molecular aggregates by about two orders of magnitude compared to sTD-DFT. The latter itself is already faster by about 4–5 orders of magnitude compared to regular TD-DFT. We demonstrate the performance of the approach for excitation spectra of organic molecular clusters. Given that the fragment electronic structure in the ExC-sTD- DFT approach is solved independently, computation of spectra for systems with ∼10,000 atoms can be performed within minutes of computation time. Furthermore, the role of electrostatic embedding in the independent fragments is investigated. For the purposes cov- ered in this work, the embedding can be simplified by employing a dielectric continuum, thus, greatly reducing the overall computational complexity. This approach may be used in screening photophysical properties of large molecular aggregates and soft matter materi- als. We present the derivation and implementation for the Tamm-Dancoff-approximated and the random-phase-approximation eigenvalue problems. Benchmarks compared to the parent sTD-DFT methods are shown for absorption and electronic circular dichroism spectra.


---
# Computational Study on Aluminum Corrosion Inhibitive Potentials of Preferred Thiosemicarbazide Derivatives&nbsp;

## 优选的氨基硫脲衍生物的铝腐蚀抑制电位的计算研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5683280/latest

Aluminum has been a primary metal relic of cultural history since ancient times. They are still widely used today in many different industrial domains. Aluminum, however, is susceptible to the corrosion process in harsh conditions. Numerous traditional protective inhibitors have been developed to counteract this harmful behavior. Sadly, these preventive inhibitors come with several major side effects, including high costs and negative impacts on the environment and human health. Density functional theory (DFT) evaluations were used to extensively examine the potentiality of the E)-2-(4-methylbenzylidene)hydrazinecarbothioamide (MBHC) and N-phenylhydeazinecarbothioamide (PHC): toward the corrosion inhibition of the aluminum surface. The sulfur and nitrogen atoms over the structures of the compounds under investigation were nucleophilic, as indicated by the electrostatic potential (ESP) analysis results. The molecular orbital theory results demonstrated the superior corrosion inhibitor preference of MBHC over PHC. After identifying the optimal MBHC&amp;thinsp;&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;Al (111) and PHC&amp;thinsp;&amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;Al (111) complex configurations, Monte Carlo simulations were carried out. Remarkably, the MBHC demonstrated a wider range of competence in the corrosion inhibition process of Al (111) than the PHC, as demonstrated by the adsorption energy values of &amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;461.73 and &amp;minus;&amp;thinsp;163.43 eV, respectively. These results offer a basis for the creation of environmentally friendly inhibitors that prevent corrosion on aluminum surfaces.

