# Weak electron-phonon coupling in layered electrides

## 层状电子中的弱电子-声子耦合

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.111.045120

**Authors:** Vahid Askarpour and Jesse Maassen

Author(s): Vahid Askarpour and Jesse Maassen<br /><p>In layered electrides, the conducting electrons fill the two-dimensional interstitial voids between the atomic planes, which is expected to result in weakened electron-phonon coupling and give rise to high mobility and conductivity. In this paper, using density functional theory, we explore the room…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 111, 045120] Published Tue Jan 07, 2025


---
# ALADYN: a set of Anharmonic LAttice DYNamics codes to compute thermodynamic and thermal transport properties of crystalline solids

## ALADYN: 一组非调和晶格动力学代码，用于计算结晶固体的热力学和热传输特性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02113

**Authors:** Keivan Esfarjani, Harold Stokes, Safoura Nayeb Sadeghi, Yuan Liang, Bikash Timalsina, Han Meng, Junichiro Shiomi, Bolin Liao, Ruoshi Sun

arXiv:2501.02113v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We introduce a lattice dynamics package which calculates elastic, thermodynamic and thermal transport properties of crystalline materials from data on their force and potential energy as a function of atomic positions. The data can come from density functional theory (DFT) calculations or classical molecular dynamics runs performed in a supercell. First, the model potential parameters, which are anharmonic force constants are extracted from the latter runs. Then, once the anharmonic model is defined, thermal conductivity and equilibrium properties at finite temperatures can be computed using lattice dynamics, Boltzmann transport theories, and a variational principle respectively. In addition, the software calculates the mechanical properties such as elastic tensor, Gruneisen parameters and the thermal expansion coefficient within the quasi-harmonic approximation (QHA). Phonons, elastic constants and thermodynamic properties results applied to the germanium crystal will be illustrated. Using the force constants as a force field, one may also perform molecular dynamics (MD) simulations in order to investigate the combined effects of anharmonicity and defect scattering beyond perturbation theory.


---
# Monolayer control of spin-charge conversion in van der Waals heterostructures

## 范德华异质结构中自旋电荷转换的单层控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02337

**Authors:** K. Abdukayumov, O. Paull, M. Mi\v{c}ica, F. Ibrahim, L. Voj\'a\v{c}ek, A. Wright, S. Massabeau, F. Mazzola, V. Polewczyk, C. Jego, R. Sharma, C. Vergnaud, A. Marty, I. Gomes de Moraes, A. Ouerghi, H. Okuno, A. Jana, I. Kar, J. Fuji, I. Vobornik, J. Li, F. Bonell, M. Chshiev, M. Bibes, J. -M. George, H. Jaffr\`es, S. Dhillon, M. Jamet

arXiv:2501.02337v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The diversity of 2D materials and their van der Waals (vdW) stacking presents a fertile ground for engineering novel multifunctional materials and quantum states of matter. This permits unique opportunities to tailor the electronic properties of vdW heterostructures by the insertion of only a single 2D material layer. However, such vdW materials engineering at the atomic scale has yet to be investigated for spin-charge interconversion phenomena. Here, we report on the control of these effects at the monolayer level, where drastic increase in intensity and change in sign of THz spintronic emission are demonstrated by inserting a single layer of MoSe$_2$ between PtSe$_2$ and graphene in a fully epitaxial, large area stacked structure. By using a combination of spin and angle resolved photoemission and density functional theory to reveal the electronic and spin structures, we illustrate two different mechanisms relying on charge transfer and electronic hybridization for the formation of Rashba states, which are responsible for spin-charge conversion and hence the THz spintronic emission. These findings open new pathways to design, at the atomic scale, efficient THz spintronic emitters made of 2D materials and other spintronic devices based on spin-charge interconversion phenomena.


---
# Valley-mediated singlet- and triplet-polaron interactions and quantum dynamics in a doped WSe$_2$ monolayer

## 掺杂WSe $_2 $ 单层中谷介导的单线态和三线态极化子相互作用和量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02372

**Authors:** Yue Ni, Di Huang, Danfu Liang, Albert Liu, Xiaohui Liu, Kevin Sampson, Zhida Liu, Jianmin Quan, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Dmitry K. Efimkin, Jesper Levinsen, Meera M. Parish, Xiaoqin Li

arXiv:2501.02372v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In doped transition metal dichalcogenides, optically created excitons (bound electron-hole pairs) can strongly interact with a Fermi sea of electrons to form Fermi polaron quasiparticles. When there are two distinct Fermi seas, as is the case in WSe$_2$, there are two flavors of lowest-energy (attractive) polarons -- singlet and triplet -- where the exciton is coupled to the Fermi sea in the same or opposite valley, respectively. Using two-dimensional coherent electronic spectroscopy, we analyze how their quantum decoherence evolves with doping density and determine the condition under which stable Fermi polarons form. Because of the large oscillator strength associated with these resonances, intrinsic quantum dynamics of polarons as well as valley coherence between coupled singlet- and triplet polarons occur on sub-picosecond time scales. Surprisingly, we find that a dark-to-bright state conversion process leads to a particularly long-lived singlet polaron valley polarization, persisting up to 200-800 ps. Valley coherence between the singlet- and triplet polaron is correlated with their energy fluctuations. Our finding provides valuable guidance for the electrical and optical control of spin and valley indexes in atomically thin semiconductors.


---
# Efficient periodic density functional theory calculations of charged molecules and surfaces using Coulomb kernel truncation

## 使用库仑核截断对带电分子和表面进行有效的周期性密度泛函理论计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02435

**Authors:** Sudarshan Vijay, Martin Schlipf, Henrique Miranda, Ferenc Karsai, Merzuk Kaltak, Martijn Marsman, Georg Kresse

arXiv:2501.02435v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Density functional theory (DFT) calculations of charged molecules and surfaces are critical to applications in electro-catalysis, energy materials and related fields of materials science. DFT implementations such as the Vienna ab-initio Simulation Package (VASP) compute the electrostatic potential under 3D periodic boundary conditions, necessitating charge neutrality. In this work, we implement 0D and 2D periodic boundary conditions to facilitate DFT calculations of charged molecules and surfaces respectively. We implement these boundary conditions using the Coulomb kernel truncation method. Our implementation computes the potential under 0D and 2D boundary conditions by selectively subtracting unwanted long-range interactions in the potential computed under 3D boundary conditions. By combining the Coulomb kernel truncation method with a computationally efficient padding approach, we remove nonphysical potentials from vacuum in 0D and 2D systems. To illustrate the computational efficiency of our method, we perform large supercell calculations of the formation energy of a charged chlorine defect on a sodium chloride (001) surface and perform long time-scale molecular dynamics simulations on a stepped gold (211) | water electrode-electrolyte interface.


---
# Large Scale Finite-Temperature Real-time Time Dependent Density Functional Theory Calculation with Hybrid Functional on ARM and GPU Systems

## ARM和GPU系统上具有混合功能的大规模有限温度实时时间相关密度泛函理论计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03061

**Authors:** Rongrong Liu, Zhuoqiang Guo, Qiuchen Sha, Tong Zhao, Haibo Li, Wei Hu, Lijun Liu, Guangming Tan, Weile Jia

arXiv:2501.03061v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ultra-fast electronic phenomena originating from finite temperature, such as nonlinear optical excitation, can be simulated with high fidelity via real-time time dependent density functional theory (rt-TDDFT) calculations with hybrid functional. However, previous rt-TDDFT simulations of real materials using the optimal gauge--known as the parallel transport gauge--have been limited to low-temperature systems with band gaps. In this paper, we introduce the parallel transport-implicit midpoint (PT-IM) method, which significantly accelerates finite-temperature rt-TDDFT calculations of real materials with hybrid function. We first implement PT-IM with hybrid functional in our plane wave code PWDFT, and optimized it on both GPU and ARM platforms to build a solid baseline code. Next, we propose a diagonalization method to reduce computation and communication complexity, and then, we employ adaptively compressed exchange (ACE) method to reduce the frequency of the most expensive Fock exchange operator. Finally, we adopt the ring\_based method and the shared memory mechanism to overlap computation and communication and alleviate memory consumption respectively. Numerical results show that our optimized code can reach 3072 atoms for rt-TDDFT simulation with hybrid functional at finite temperature on 192 computing nodes, the time-to-solution for one time step is 429.3s, which is 41.4 times faster compared to the baseline.


---
# Visualizing quantum entanglement in Bose-Einstein condensates without state vectors

## 在没有状态向量的情况下可视化玻色-爱因斯坦凝聚中的量子纠缠

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03199

**Authors:** Russell B. Thompson

arXiv:2501.03199v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Ring polymer self-consistent field theory is used to calculate the critical temperatures and heat capacities of an ideal Bose gas for an order of magnitude more particles than previously reported. A lambda-transition indicative of Bose-Einstein condensation is observed as expected. Using a known proof of spatial mode entanglement in Bose-Einstein condensates, a relationship between boson exchange and quantum entanglement is established. This is done without the use of state vectors, since ring polymer quantum theory uses instead a thermal degree of freedom, sometimes called the "imaginary time", to map classical statistical mechanics onto non-relativistic quantum mechanics through the theorems of density functional theory. It is shown that quantum phenomena, such as Bose-Einstein condensation, boson exchange, entanglement and contextuality, can be visualized in terms of merging and separating ring polymer threads in thermal-space. A possible extension to fermions is mentioned.


---
# Restart uncertainty relation for monitored quantum dynamics

## 被监测量子动力学的重启不确定关系

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01307

**Authors:** Ruoyu Yin, Qingyuan Wang, Sabine Tornow, Eli Barkai

arXiv:2401.01307v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We introduce a novel time-energy uncertainty relation within the context of restarts in monitored quantum dynamics. Initially, we investigate the concept of ``first hitting time'' in quantum systems using an IBM quantum computer and a three-site ring graph as our starting point. Previous studies have established that the mean recurrence time, which represents the time taken to return to the initial state, is quantized as an integer multiple of the sampling time, displaying pointwise discontinuous transitions at resonances. Our findings demonstrate that, the natural utilization of the restart mechanism in laboratory experiments, driven by finite data collection time spans, leads to a broadening effect on the transitions of the mean recurrence time. Our newly proposed uncertainty relation captures the underlying essence of these phenomena, by connecting the broadening of the mean hitting time near resonances, to the intrinsic energies of the quantum system and to the fluctuations of recurrence time. This work not only contributes to our understanding of fundamental aspects related to quantum measurements and dynamics, but also offers practical insights for the design of efficient quantum algorithms with mid-circuit measurements.


---
# Heavy-fermions in frustrated Hund's metal with portions of incipient flat-bands

## 沮丧的Hund金属中的重费米子，带有初期的平带

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16770

**Authors:** Yilin Wang

arXiv:2401.16770v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Flat-bands induced by destructive interference of hoppings in frustrated lattices such as kagome metals, have been extensively studied in recent years. However, such flat-bands usually appear in small portions of Brillouin zone and are away from Fermi level in the non-interacting limit (dubbed as ``incipient"). Whether such incipient flat-band portions can induce very strong electron correlations is an open question. Recently, such incipient flat-bands are found in frustrated kagome CsCr$_3$Sb$_5$ and triangular CrB$_2$, which show moderately heavy-fermion behaviors and unconventional superconductivity. Here, by density functional theory plus dynamical mean-field theory calculations, we show that both compounds are typical Hund's metals. The incipient flat-band portions induce dips in hybridization functions, which further enhance the Kondo-like effect of Hund's metal, resulting in moderately heavy-fermion behaviors. This explains the origin of the heavy-fermion behaviors and pave the way for understanding the unconventional superconductivity in CsCr$_3$Sb$_5$ and CrB$_2$. Our work demonstrates a flexible route for generating $d$-electron heavy-fermion and for inducing unconventional superconductivity based on frustrated Hund's metals with portions of incipient flat-bands. A large family of materials with kagome, triangular, pyrochlore lattices consisting of Cr (d$^4$), Ru (d$^4$), Fe (d$^6$) ions are promising candidates.


---
# Exact Constraint of Density Functional Approximations at the Semiclassical Limit

## 在半经典极限处的密度泛函逼近的精确约束

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02243

**Authors:** Yunzhi Li, Chen Li

arXiv:2501.02243v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We introduce the semiclassical limit to electronic systems by taking the limit $\hbar\rightarrow 0$ in the solution of Schr\"odinger equations. We show that this limit is closely related to one type of strong correlation that is particularly challenging from conventional multi-configurational perspective but can be readily described through semiclassical analysis. Furthermore, by studying the performance of density functional approximations (DFAs) in the semiclassical limit, we find that mainstream DFAs have erroneous divergent energy behaviors as $\hbar \rightarrow 0$, violating the exact constraint of finite energy. Importantly, by making connection of the significantly underestimated DFA energies of many strongly correlated transition-metal diatomic molecules to their rather small estimated $\hbar_{\text{eff}}$, we demonstrate the usefulness of our semiclassical analysis and its promise for inspiring better DFAs.


---
# Efficient periodic density functional theory calculations of charged molecules and surfaces using Coulomb kernel truncation

## 使用库仑核截断对带电分子和表面进行有效的周期性密度泛函理论计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02435

**Authors:** Sudarshan Vijay, Martin Schlipf, Henrique Miranda, Ferenc Karsai, Merzuk Kaltak, Martijn Marsman, Georg Kresse

arXiv:2501.02435v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Density functional theory (DFT) calculations of charged molecules and surfaces are critical to applications in electro-catalysis, energy materials and related fields of materials science. DFT implementations such as the Vienna ab-initio Simulation Package (VASP) compute the electrostatic potential under 3D periodic boundary conditions, necessitating charge neutrality. In this work, we implement 0D and 2D periodic boundary conditions to facilitate DFT calculations of charged molecules and surfaces respectively. We implement these boundary conditions using the Coulomb kernel truncation method. Our implementation computes the potential under 0D and 2D boundary conditions by selectively subtracting unwanted long-range interactions in the potential computed under 3D boundary conditions. By combining the Coulomb kernel truncation method with a computationally efficient padding approach, we remove nonphysical potentials from vacuum in 0D and 2D systems. To illustrate the computational efficiency of our method, we perform large supercell calculations of the formation energy of a charged chlorine defect on a sodium chloride (001) surface and perform long time-scale molecular dynamics simulations on a stepped gold (211) | water electrode-electrolyte interface.


---
# Simplified tuning of long-range corrected time-dependent density functional theory

## 长程校正的时变密度泛函理论的简化调谐

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-7js76?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Aniket , Mandal

Range-separated hybrid functionals have dramatically improved the description of charge-transfer excitations in time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT), especially when the range-separation parameter is adjusted in order   to satisfy the ionization energy (IE) criterion, eHOMO = –IE.   However, this "optimal tuning"  procedure is molecule-specific, inconvenient, expensive for systems, and can be problematic in extended or periodic systems. Here, we consider an alternative procedure  known as global density-dependent (GDD) tuning, which sets the range-separation parameter in an automated way based on properties of the exchange hole, determined self-consistently. In small molecules, we find that both IE- and GDD-tuned functionals afford remarkably similar TD-DFT  excitation energies for both valence and charge-transfer excitations.   However, GDD tuning is more efficient and is  well-behaved even for large systems, providing a black-box solution to the optimal tuning problem. GDD tuning can thus replace IE tuning for many applications of TD-DFT.


---
# Platinum carbonyl Chini clusters as catalysts for photocatalytic H2 generation

## 铂羰基Chini团簇作为光催化H2生成的催化剂

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-17d1m?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Hynd, Remita

Platinum Chini clusters of a general formula [Pt3(CO)6]n2- are formed by n stacked Pt3 units. They have fascinating electronic and optical properties that can be tuned with n. In the current manuscript, the electronic, photochemical, and charge transport properties of the platinum Chini clusters are studied with the Density Functional theory (PBE and CAM-B3LYP/6-31G(d, p) + LANL2DZ) as a function of their nuclearity n. Our theoretical predictions are followed by experimental proof of concept, in which synthesized Chini clusters are deposited as cocatalysts on TiO2 for photocatalytic hydrogen generation. We demonstrate that the smaller clusters (n = 4) are more effective than the larger ones (n = 7-8) and that the composites having lower Pt content perform better.


---
# Atomistic Dipolar Catalysis: Rules for Catalyst Polarization, Reactant Activation and Conversion

## 原子偶极催化: 催化剂极化，反应物活化和转化的规则

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-hc3vc?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Biao , Wang

As the extremely-sized nanocrystals and nanopores, an adatom (M) and atomic vacancy (V0) exhibit extraordinary catalysis capability, yet understanding the catalyst-reactant interfacial bonding and electronic dynamics remains a challenge. With the aid of density functional theory calculations, we examined the dehydrogenization of CH4 catalyzed using Rh(111;100), W(110), Ru(0001) surfaces, and monolayer graphene, with and without M or V0 as prototypes to prove the concept of atomistic dipolar catalysis (ADC) that unifies the effects of atomic under- and hetero-coordination. Results confirmed that the three-stage ADC follows the respective regulations: First, atomic irregular coordination creates atomistic MP and vacancy V0 dipoles generating stronger local electric fields; second, the interplay of the (X = MP/V0):H attraction and X:C repulsion at the X:H–C interface activates the reactant by stretching the H–C bond, with the “:” denoting the negative pole of the X; and finally, the efficiency of the reactant conversion depends on the charge quantity of the X dipoles. The development should impact on devising efficient catalysts and provide deeper insight into ADC bonding and electronic dynamics.


---
# A carbon nanotube based electron source with 0.3eV energy spread and an unconventional time delay

## 具有0.3eV能量扩展和非常规时间延迟的基于碳纳米管的电子源

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5702482/latest

Conventianal metal tip based laser-driven electron source is normally constrained by a trade-off between energy spread and pulse duration due to optical-field-induced free electron acceleration, making it challenging to overcome the current state of the art electron source with over 1 eV energy spread and hundreds of femoto second (fs) duration. Here, we report an unconventional delayed emission in a one-dimensional carbon nanotube (CNT) based electron source. By utilizing a special pump-probe approach, we apply 7 fs laser pulses to the CNT emitters and observe free electron emission tens of fs after the pulse. This delayed emission resulted in a substantial reduced energy spread to approximately 0.3 eV and an electron pulse duration of about 13 fs. Through time-dependent density functional theory calculations, we find that this is driven by the interplay of collective oscillations and electron-electron interactions. Our results may provide a promising technology for the cutting-edge ultrafast electron sources.

