# Charge transport limited by nonlocal electron-phonon interaction. II. Numerically exact quantum dynamics in the slow-phonon regime

## 非局域电子-声子相互作用限制的电荷传输.二。慢声子状态下的数值精确量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05055

**Authors:** Veljko Jankovi\'c

arXiv:2501.05055v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Transport of charge carriers in mechanically soft semiconductors is mainly limited by their interaction with slow intermolecular phonons. Carrier motion exhibits a crossover from superdiffusive to subdiffusive, producing a distinct low-frequency peak in the dynamical-mobility profile. These features can be understood within approaches relying on the timescale separation between carrier and phonon dynamics, such as the transient localization scenario (TLS). However, recovering them from fully quantum dynamics has proved elusive. Using the hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM)-based approach exposed in a companion paper, we study carrier transport in the one-dimensional Peierls model near the adiabatic limit. We find that the TLS approximates HEOM dynamics very well at higher temperatures and for stronger interactions. Then, the transport is predominantly phonon-assisted, and turns diffusive from the subdiffusive side well before one phonon period. In contrast, the band current dominates at moderate temperatures and interactions, relevant for transport in realistic materials. We then conclude that the super-to-subdiffusive crossover is transient, so that the diffusive motion sets in from the superdiffusive side after a couple of phonon periods. The low-frequency dynamical mobility then additionally exhibits a dip at approximately one phonon frequency, and the zero-frequency peak. Our findings in this moderate regime show limitations of the TLS, and support the results of the most advanced quantum-classical simulations. We expect that the qualitative differences between HEOM and TLS dynamics would diminish for a more realistic phonon density of states.


---
# Electron-phonon coupling in lattice engineering of lithium niobate single crystal thin films

## 铌酸锂单晶薄膜晶格工程中的电子-声子耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05060

**Authors:** Guoqiang Shi, Kunfeng Chen, Hui Hu, Gongbin Tang, Dongfeng Xue

arXiv:2501.05060v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Lithium niobate (LN) single crystal thin films are a high-performance photonic platform with applications in electro-optic modulators, nonlinear optical devices, optical frequency combs, and acousto-optic modulators. LN's significance in photonics parallels silicon's in electronics, addressing challenges like high power consumption and slow communication speeds, and offering potential for broad applications in optical communications, quantum computing, and artificial intelligence. Despite progress in developing LN-based photonic structures, achieving low-loss, reconfigurable, and large-scale devices requires improved processing techniques. This work introduces a quantum design methodology based on LN's crystal structure, utilizing electron-phonon coupling through external field perturbations. Multiscale structural analysis is performed with techniques such as time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy, and X-ray absorption spectra to identify and control defect structures. Angle-resolved Raman spectroscopy, femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy, and Density Functional Theory further reveal the mechanisms of electron-phonon coupling. These findings establish a framework for designing LN-based quantum devices with enhanced performance and diverse functionalities.


---
# How quantum selection rules influence the magneto-optical effects of driven, ultrafast magnetization dynamics

## 量子选择规则如何影响驱动的超快磁化动力学的磁光效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05433

**Authors:** Mohamed F. Elhanoty, Olle Eriksson, Chin Shen Ong, Oscar Gr{\aa}n\"as

arXiv:2501.05433v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Ultrafast magnetization dynamics driven by ultrashort pump lasers is typically explained by changes in electronic populations and scattering pathways of excited conduction electrons. This conventional approach overlooks the fundamental role of quantum mechanical selection rules, governing transitions from core states to the conduction band, that forms the key method of the probing step in these experiments. By employing fully \textit{ab initio} time-dependent density functional theory, we reveal that these selection rules profoundly influence the interpretation of ultrafast spin dynamics at specific probe energies. Our analysis for hcp Co and fcc Ni at the M edge demonstrates that the transient dynamics, as revealed in pump-probe experiments, arise from a complex interplay of optical excitations of the M shell. Taking into account the selection rules and conduction electron spin flips, this leads to highly energy-dependent dynamics. These findings address longstanding discrepancies in experimental TMOKE measurements and show that only through meticulous consideration of matrix elements at the probe stage, can one ensure that magnetization dynamics is revealed in its true nature, instead of being muddled by artifacts arising from the choice of probe energy.


---
# Response Kinetic Uncertainty Relation for Markovian Open Quantum System

## 马尔可夫开放量子系统的响应动力学不确定性关系

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04895

**Authors:** Kangqiao Liu, Jie Gu

arXiv:2501.04895v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The thermodynamics and kinetics of a nonequilibrium classical system fundamentally constrain the precision of an observable regarding the celebrated thermodynamic uncertainty relation (TUR) and the kinetic uncertainty relation (KUR). They have been extended to open quantum systems obeying the Lindblad master equation where unique quantum effects are identified. Recently, a new set of principles that further incorporate the response of a classical system to an external perturbation have been discovered, named the response TUR and the response KUR (R-KUR). In this work, we generalize the classical R-KUR using the quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound to the steady state of the Lindblad master equation. The precision and the sensitivity of a measured observable are bounded from above by the conventional quantum dynamical activity and a perturbation-induced inter-subspace transition term. We provide sufficient conditions such that either of the two contributions vanishes, implying their equal importance. We verify our result and illustrate the conditions in an exactly solvable two-level atom.


---
# Tomographic identification of all molecular orbitals in a wide binding energy range

## 宽结合能范围内所有分子轨道的层析鉴定

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05287

**Authors:** Anja Haags, Dominik Brandstetter, Xiaosheng Yang, Larissa Egger, Hans Kirschner, Alexander Gottwald, Mathias Richter, Georg Koller, Fran\c{c}ois C. Bocquet, Christian Wagner, Michael G. Ramsey, Serguei Soubatch, Peter Puschnig, F. Stefan Tautz

arXiv:2501.05287v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: In the past decade, photoemission orbital tomography (POT) has evolved into a powerful tool to investigate the electronic structure of organic molecules adsorbed on surfaces. Here we show that POT allows for the comprehensive experimental identification of all molecular orbitals in a substantial binding energy range, in the present case more than 10 eV. Making use of the angular distribution of photoelectrons as a function of binding energy, we exemplify this by extracting orbital-resolved partial densities of states (pDOS) for 15 $\pi$ and 23 $\sigma$ orbitals from the experimental photoemission intensities of the prototypical organic molecule bisanthene (C$_{28}$H$_{14}$) on a Cu(110) surface. In their entirety, these experimentally measured orbital-resolved pDOS for an essentially complete set of orbitals serve as a stringent benchmark for electronic structure methods, which we illustrate by performing density functional theory (DFT) calculations employing four frequently-used exchange-correlation functionals. By computing the respective molecular-orbital-projected densities of states of the bisanthene/Cu(110) interface, a one-to-one comparison with experimental data for an unprecedented number of 38 orbital energies becomes possible. The quantitative analysis of our data reveals that the range-separated hybrid functional HSE performs best for the investigated organic/metal interface. At a more fundamental level, the remarkable agreement between the experimental and the Kohn-Sham orbital energies over a binding energy range larger than 10\,eV suggests that -- perhaps unexpectedly -- Kohn-Sham orbitals approximate Dyson orbitals, which would rigorously account for the electron extraction process in photoemission spectroscopy but are notoriously difficult to compute, in a much better way than previously thought.


---
# Influence of surface relaxations on scanning probe microscopy images of the charge density wave material 2H-NbSe$_2$

## 表面弛豫对电荷密度波材料2H-NbSe $_2 $ 扫描探针显微图像的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17231

**Authors:** Nikhil S. Sivakumar, Joost Aretz, Sebastian Scherb, Marion van Midden Mavri\v{c}, Nora Huijgen, Umut Kamber, Daniel Wegner, Alexander A. Khajetoorians, Malte R\"osner, Nadine Hauptmann

arXiv:2407.17231v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Scanning tunneling microscopy is the method of choice for characterizing charge density waves by imaging the variation in atomic-scale contrast of the surface. Due to the measurement principle of scanning tunneling microscopy, the electronic and lattice degrees of freedom are convoluted, making it difficult to disentangle a structural displacement from spatial variations in the electronic structure. In this work, we characterize the influence of the displacement of the surface-terminating Se atoms on the 3 x 3 charge density wave contrast in scanning probe microscopy images of 2H-NbSe$_2$. In scanning tunneling microscopy images, we observe the 3 x 3 charge density wave superstructure and atomic lattice at all probed tip-sample distances. In contrast, non-contact atomic force microscopy images show both periodicities only at small tip-sample distances while, unexpectedly, a 3 x 3 superstructure is present at larger tip-sample distances. Using density functional theory calculations, we qualitatively reproduce the experimental findings and indicate that the 3 x 3 superstructure at different tip-sample distances in non-contact atomic force microscopy images is a result from different underlying interactions. In addition, we show that the displacement of the surface-terminating Se atoms has a negligible influence to the contrast in scanning tunneling microscopy images. Our combined experimental and theoretic work presents a method on how to discriminate the influence of the surface corrugation from the variation of the charge density to the charge density wave contrast in scanning probe microscopy images, which can provide insights into the influence of structural disorder to a charge density wave ground state.


---
# Short-Range Order Based Ultra Fast Large-Scale Modeling of High-Entropy Alloys

## 基于短程有序的高熵合金超快大规模建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18906

**Authors:** Caimei Niu, Lifeng Liu

arXiv:2411.18906v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: High-Entropy Alloys (HEAs) exhibit complex atomic interactions, with short-range order (SRO) playing a critical role in determining their properties. Traditional methods, such as Monte Carlo generator of Special Quasirandom Structures within the Alloy Theoretic Automated Toolkit (ATAT-mcsqs), Super-cell Random Approximates (SCRAPs), and hybrid Monte Carlo-Molecular Dynamics (MC-MD) are often hindered by limited system sizes and high computational costs. In response, we introduce PyHEA, a Python-based toolkit with a high-performance C++ core that leverages global and local search algorithms, incremental SRO computations, and GPU acceleration for unprecedented efficiency. When constructing random HEAs, PyHEA achieves speedups exceeding 133,000x and 13,900x over ATAT-mcsqs and SCRAPs, respectively, while maintaining high accuracy. PyHEA also offers a flexible workflow that allows users to incorporate target SRO values from external simulations (e.g., LAMMPS or density functional theory (DFT)), thereby enabling more realistic and customizable HEA models. As a proof of concept, PyHEA successfully replicated literature results for a 256,000-atom Fe-Cr-Co system within minutes-an order-of-magnitude improvement over hybrid MC-MD approaches. This dramatic acceleration opens new possibilities for bridging theoretical insights and practical applications, paving the way for the efficient design of next-generation HEAs.


---
# Electronic Structure, mass fluctuation, and Localized Bond Properties of two-dimensional double-layer transition metal chalcogenide MX$_2$ (M = Mo, W; X = S, Se, Te) Calculated Based on Density Functional Theory and BBC model

## 基于密度泛函理论和BBC模型计算的二维双层过渡金属硫族化合物MX $_2 $ (M = Mo，W; X = S，Se，Te) 的电子结构，质量涨落和局域键性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00792

**Authors:** Yaorui Tan, Maolin Bo

arXiv:2412.00792v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study systematically investigates the electronic structure and bonding properties of two-dimensional bilayer transition metal chalcogenides MX$_2$ (M = Mo, W; X = S, Se, Te) using density functional theory calculations. Through the analysis of band gaps, deformation bond energies, and non-Hermitian bonding characteristics of various MX$_2$ compounds, the electronic properties and chemical bonding features are comprehensively examined. The findings demonstrate that charge transfer plays a critical role in electron mass fluctuation, with the incorporation of topological geometric analysis confirming the influence of mass changes on atomic bonding and electronic states. Furthermore, Heterojunctions between distinct atomic layers are shown to effectively modulate the band gap of two-dimensional bilayer transition metal chalcogenides. This work establishes a theoretical foundation for advancing the application of these materials.


---
# Study the quantum resolution sizes and atomic bonding states of two-dimensional tin monoxide

## 研究二维一氧化锡的量子分辨率大小和原子成键状态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.06169

**Authors:** Yu Wang, Yunhu Zhu, Yixin Li, Maolin Bo

arXiv:2412.06169v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Understanding the interatomic bonding and electronic properties of two-dimensional (2D) materials is crucial for preparing high-performance 2D semiconductor materials. We have calculated the band structure, electronic properties, and bonding characteristics of SnO in 2D materials by using density functional theory (DFT) and combining bond energy and bond charge models. Atomic bonding analysis enables us to deeply and meticulously analyze the interatomic bonding and charge transfer in the layered structure of SnO. This study greatly enhances our understanding of the local bonding state on the surface of 2D structural materials. In addition, we use the renormalization method to operate energy to determine the wave function at different quantum resolutions. This is of great significance for describing the size and phase transition of nanomaterials.


---
# Measurement-Induced Spectral Transition

## 测量引起的光谱跃迁

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18234

**Authors:** Ken Mochizuki, Ryusuke Hamazaki

arXiv:2406.18234v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We show that noisy quantum dynamics exposed to weak measurements exhibit a spectral transition between gapless and gapped phases. To this end, we employ the Lyapunov spectrum obtained through singular values of a non-unitary matrix describing the dynamics. We discover that the gapless and gapped phases respectively correspond to the volume-law and area-law phases of the entanglement entropy for the dominant Lyapunov vector. This correspondence between the spectral gap and the scaling of entanglement offers an intriguing analogy with ground-state phase transitions. We also discuss some crucial differences from ground-state transitions, such as the scaling law of the entanglement and the exponentially small gaps. Furthermore, we show that the spectral transition leads to the transition of the timescale for the memory loss of initial states.


---
# Tomographic identification of all molecular orbitals in a wide binding energy range

## 宽结合能范围内所有分子轨道的层析鉴定

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05287

**Authors:** Anja Haags, Dominik Brandstetter, Xiaosheng Yang, Larissa Egger, Hans Kirschner, Alexander Gottwald, Mathias Richter, Georg Koller, Fran\c{c}ois C. Bocquet, Christian Wagner, Michael G. Ramsey, Serguei Soubatch, Peter Puschnig, F. Stefan Tautz

arXiv:2501.05287v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In the past decade, photoemission orbital tomography (POT) has evolved into a powerful tool to investigate the electronic structure of organic molecules adsorbed on surfaces. Here we show that POT allows for the comprehensive experimental identification of all molecular orbitals in a substantial binding energy range, in the present case more than 10 eV. Making use of the angular distribution of photoelectrons as a function of binding energy, we exemplify this by extracting orbital-resolved partial densities of states (pDOS) for 15 $\pi$ and 23 $\sigma$ orbitals from the experimental photoemission intensities of the prototypical organic molecule bisanthene (C$_{28}$H$_{14}$) on a Cu(110) surface. In their entirety, these experimentally measured orbital-resolved pDOS for an essentially complete set of orbitals serve as a stringent benchmark for electronic structure methods, which we illustrate by performing density functional theory (DFT) calculations employing four frequently-used exchange-correlation functionals. By computing the respective molecular-orbital-projected densities of states of the bisanthene/Cu(110) interface, a one-to-one comparison with experimental data for an unprecedented number of 38 orbital energies becomes possible. The quantitative analysis of our data reveals that the range-separated hybrid functional HSE performs best for the investigated organic/metal interface. At a more fundamental level, the remarkable agreement between the experimental and the Kohn-Sham orbital energies over a binding energy range larger than 10\,eV suggests that -- perhaps unexpectedly -- Kohn-Sham orbitals approximate Dyson orbitals, which would rigorously account for the electron extraction process in photoemission spectroscopy but are notoriously difficult to compute, in a much better way than previously thought.


---
# Charge transport limited by nonlocal electron-phonon interaction. II. Numerically exact quantum dynamics in the slow-phonon regime

## 非局域电子-声子相互作用限制的电荷传输.二。慢声子状态下的数值精确量子动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05055

**Authors:** Veljko Jankovi\'c

arXiv:2501.05055v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Transport of charge carriers in mechanically soft semiconductors is mainly limited by their interaction with slow intermolecular phonons. Carrier motion exhibits a crossover from superdiffusive to subdiffusive, producing a distinct low-frequency peak in the dynamical-mobility profile. These features can be understood within approaches relying on the timescale separation between carrier and phonon dynamics, such as the transient localization scenario (TLS). However, recovering them from fully quantum dynamics has proved elusive. Using the hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM)-based approach exposed in a companion paper, we study carrier transport in the one-dimensional Peierls model near the adiabatic limit. We find that the TLS approximates HEOM dynamics very well at higher temperatures and for stronger interactions. Then, the transport is predominantly phonon-assisted, and turns diffusive from the subdiffusive side well before one phonon period. In contrast, the band current dominates at moderate temperatures and interactions, relevant for transport in realistic materials. We then conclude that the super-to-subdiffusive crossover is transient, so that the diffusive motion sets in from the superdiffusive side after a couple of phonon periods. The low-frequency dynamical mobility then additionally exhibits a dip at approximately one phonon frequency, and the zero-frequency peak. Our findings in this moderate regime show limitations of the TLS, and support the results of the most advanced quantum-classical simulations. We expect that the qualitative differences between HEOM and TLS dynamics would diminish for a more realistic phonon density of states.


---
# Short-Range Order Based Ultra Fast Large-Scale Modeling of High-Entropy Alloys

## 基于短程有序的高熵合金超快大规模建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.18906

**Authors:** Caimei Niu, Lifeng Liu

arXiv:2411.18906v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: High-Entropy Alloys (HEAs) exhibit complex atomic interactions, with short-range order (SRO) playing a critical role in determining their properties. Traditional methods, such as Monte Carlo generator of Special Quasirandom Structures within the Alloy Theoretic Automated Toolkit (ATAT-mcsqs), Super-cell Random Approximates (SCRAPs), and hybrid Monte Carlo-Molecular Dynamics (MC-MD) are often hindered by limited system sizes and high computational costs. In response, we introduce PyHEA, a Python-based toolkit with a high-performance C++ core that leverages global and local search algorithms, incremental SRO computations, and GPU acceleration for unprecedented efficiency. When constructing random HEAs, PyHEA achieves speedups exceeding 133,000x and 13,900x over ATAT-mcsqs and SCRAPs, respectively, while maintaining high accuracy. PyHEA also offers a flexible workflow that allows users to incorporate target SRO values from external simulations (e.g., LAMMPS or density functional theory (DFT)), thereby enabling more realistic and customizable HEA models. As a proof of concept, PyHEA successfully replicated literature results for a 256,000-atom Fe-Cr-Co system within minutes-an order-of-magnitude improvement over hybrid MC-MD approaches. This dramatic acceleration opens new possibilities for bridging theoretical insights and practical applications, paving the way for the efficient design of next-generation HEAs.


---
# The Effect of Alkyl Termination on the Optical and Electronic Properties of Silicon Nanoparticles

## 烷基封端对硅纳米粒子光学和电子性质的影响

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-5qznh-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Eimear , Madden

In this study, we use a combination of (time-dependent) density functional theory and many-body perturbation theory methods to study the impact of alkyl termination on the optical and electronic properties of silicon nanoparticles (SiNPs), as well as the effect of increasing particle size. A comparative study of hydrogen and methyl-terminated SiNPs reveals that replacing hydrogen atoms with methyl groups results in a reduction of the fundamental gap, optical gap, and exciton binding energy. The effect of replacing hydrogen by methyl diminishes with increasing size of the silicon core of the particles, which can be attributed to the decreasing surface-to-volume ratio. Larger hydrogen-terminated SiNPs, therefore, serve as increasingly accurate models for alkyl-terminated SiNPs. The size of the lowest energy excited-state, exciton, increases when replacing (more of the) hydrogen atoms with methyl groups for a given silicon core size, suggesting that the exciton delocalises onto the methyl groups. Analysis of the relevant natural transition orbitals confirms that both the excited electron and hole components of the exciton partially delocalise on to the methyl groups, with increased delocalisation in the case of the excited electron. The reduced fundamental and optical gaps and exciton binding energy in methyl-terminated SiNPs, and probably by extension alkyl terminated SiNPS in general, are likely due to the electron-donating nature of methyl groups combined with exciton delocalisation.


---
# Strain-Enabled Radical-Polar Crossover Annulation: A Unified Strategy to Access Spiro-, Fused-, and Enantioenriched-Aza/Oxa-Bicyclo[3.1.1]hepatanes

## 应变激活的自由基-极性交叉环: 一种统一的策略来获取螺-，融合-和对映富集的-氮杂/氧杂-双环 [3.1.1] 肝烷

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-px1f3-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Buddhadeb, Sahana

Conformationally rigid bridged bicyclic scaffolds have emerged as bioisosteric replacements for planar aromatic rings. However, bioisosteric mimetics of heteroaromatic rings have been investigated less due to the challenges of incorporating heteroatoms into bicycloalkanes. Herein, we report a unified strategy to access both aza- and oxa-bicyclo [3.1.1]heptanes in a single experimental protocol from a readily accessible amino/hydroxy acid derivative under photoredox catalysis. The reaction exhibits a broad scope across a range of redox-active esters and bicyclo[1.1.0]butanes (BCBs) and successfully provides previously inaccessible spiro- and fused-hetero-bicyclo[3.1.1]heptanes. Noteworthy, chiral amino/hydroxy acids derived redox-active esters could be used to access enantioenriched hetero-bicyclo[3.1.1]heptanes. Furthermore, the strategy has been extended to access aza-bicyclo[2.1.1]hexanes, another important motif in medicinal chemistry. The functional groups introduced during the reaction serve as a synthetic handle for downstream manipulations, thus offering opportunities to build up molecular complexity rapidly. Density functional theory calculations and experimental studies support an oxidative radical-polar crossover mechanism and rationalize the observed regioselectivity.


---
# Computer-Aided Design of Stability Enhanced Nicotinamide Cofactor Biomimetics

## 稳定性增强的烟酰胺辅因子仿生的计算机辅助设计

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2025-kjf9p?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Robert, Paton

Cell-free biosynthesis (CFB) is an efficient and environmentally friendly method to synthesize molecules such as pharmaceuticals, biochemicals, and biofuels through the in vitro use of enzyme cascades. These enzymes often require redox cofactors to drive chemical reactions. Natural redox cofactors (NAD(P)H) are expensive to isolate, motivating synthetic nicotinamide cofactor biomimetics (NCBs) as a cost-effective solution. A select handful of NCBs have been identified as potential NAD(P)H alternatives with comparable or improved redox capabilities, however they display a tendency to degrade in common buffers. In this study, a library of 132 NCB candidates is systematically generated, over 85% of which have not been characterized in the literature, to expand the diversity of currently explored NCBs. The decomposition mechanism of NCBs in phosphate is evaluated using density functional theory (DFT), revealing protonation at the nicotinamide C5 position as a reporter of cofactor stability.  Based on this result, we trained a linear regression model on DFT calculated descriptors to predict NCB stability in phosphate buffer, achieving mean absolute error (MAE) and root mean squared error (RMSE) values within computational accuracy. Analysis of key atomic descriptors and qualitative trends in our dataset informed the design of novel NCB candidates we propose with optimized stability. This work enables researchers to predict the relative stability of NCBs before synthesis, thereby streamlining the process to make CFB more affordable and viable at industry scales.

