# Phase-Space Approach to Wannier Pairing and Bogoliubov Orbitals in Square-Octagon Lattices

## 方形八边形晶格中Wannier配对和Bogoliubov轨道的相空间方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20054

**Authors:** Rajesh O. Sharma, Tanmoy Das

arXiv:2412.20054v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Low-energy lattice models are the cornerstone for understanding many-body effects and interactions between systems and measurements. A key challenge is identifying appropriate states that canonically transform between momentum and real space while retaining the correlation, entanglement, and geometric properties - generally called the Wannier obstruction. Here, we introduce a phase-space approach to bypass these obstructions. Instead of treating phase space as a manifold, we embed real space through a Bloch vector space at each momentum. Orbital and spin states are introduced through product states with the Bloch vector, while quantum statistics, correlations, topology, and entanglements are inherited from the Hamiltonian. We apply this framework to explore unconventional pairing symmetry and the Bogoliubov-de-Gennes (BdG) equation in the phase space. Our findings demonstrate that while superconductivity exhibits global coherence in momentum space, the local Wannier orbital symmetry primarily determines the pairing symmetry. We analytically solve the spin-fluctuation mediated pairing symmetry on the phase space by engineering a flat band with artificial gauge fields. We then apply the model to a square-octagon superconductor Lu$_2$Fe$_3$Si$_5$ using density functional theory (DFT) to unravel a coexistence of nodeless $s_{\pm}$ and nodal $s_{z^2}$ pairing symmetries. This phase-space framework provides a robust, obstruction-free lattice model for complex many-body systems and their exotic excitations.


---
# Effect of arsenic doping on structural and electronic properties of MoSe$_2$ monolayer: an ab initio study

## 砷掺杂对MoSe $_2 $ 单层结构和电子性质的影响: 从头算研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17664

**Authors:** B. Bradji, M. L. Benkhedir

arXiv:2412.17664v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In this paper, we studied the structural and electronic properties of MoSe$_2$ monolayer in its pure and doped forms, using the density functional theory (DFT), and the calculations were performed using Quantum Espresso (QE) software package. The doped systems are a MoSe$_2$ monolayer with a vacancy in Mo site (Mo vacancy system), the MoSe$_2$ monolayer with an As atom as substitutional for Mo atom (As(Mo) doped system) and an MoSe$_2$ monolayer with As atom in an interstitial site in the hollow location of the center of one ring of the structure between the plane Mo atoms and the plane containing Se atoms (As interstitial system). We calculated the formation energy of various structures studied in Se-rich condition. We found that the As(Mo) doped system is a favorable configuration, whereas the As interstitial system is metastable. Different defects introduce midgap levels, which were interpreted according to the orbitals involved in their formation using the analysis of the band structure and DOS and PDOS of each system. The energy gap increases in all system structures and its value ranged between 1.5 eV and 1.73 eV, the Fermi level shifts toward the valence band for the Mo vacancy system, and As(Mo) doped system which suggests that it can be a $p$-type semiconductor, whereas Fermi level shifts to the conduction band for As interstitial system and suggests a $n$-type semiconductor behavior. The obtained results enable us to predict the possibility of using these systems in many applications, since it can be used in the As(Mo) doped system in photocatalysis or in photovoltaic applications in the visible light, and As interstitial system can be used in electronics applications in the infrared field.


---
# A Verbose Note on Density Functional Theory

## 关于密度泛函理论的一个冗长注记

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20441

**Authors:** Chang Liu

arXiv:2412.20441v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This note is intended for expanding the details on the derivation and properties of density functional theory, in hope to make them more systematic, better motivated, and step-by-step for readers new to the domain. The note starts with basic concepts in quantum mechanics, then takes the step towards many-body systems using the tools of second quantization and Fock space, with some highlights on properties of the Coulomb system. Given these general technical preparations, the Hartree-Fock method is naturally unrolled, with expressions for various cases and quantities. Density functional theory is then presented, with a motivating reasoning of the Kohn-Sham formulation, and a connection and comparison of the expressions with the Hartree-Fock method. Lieb's celebrated 1983 paper on functional analysis on density functionals is also summarized.


---
# Internal diffraction dynamics of trilobite molecules

## 三叶虫分子的内部衍射动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02134

**Authors:** Rohan Srikumar, Seth T. Rittenhouse, Peter Schmelcher

arXiv:2408.02134v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Trilobite molecules are ultralong-range Rydberg molecules formed when a high angular momentum Rydberg electron scatters off of a ground-state atom. Their unique electronic structure and highly oscillatory potential energy curves support a rich variety of dynamical effects yet to be explored. We analyze the vibrational motion of these molecules using a framework of adiabatic wavepacket propagation dynamics and observe that for appropriate initial states, the trilobite potential acts as molecular diffraction grating. The quantum dynamic effects observed are explained using a Fourier analysis of the scattering potential and the associated scattered wavepacket. Furthermore, vibrational ground-states of the low angular momentum ultralong-range Rydberg molecules are found to be particularly suitable to prepare the relevant wavepackets. Hence, we propose a time resolved pump-probe scheme designed for the realization of the effect in question, and advertise the utilization of a single diatomic Rydberg molecule as a testbed for the study of exaggerated quantum dynamical phenomena.


---
# Hydrogen Tunneling and Conformational Motions in Nonadiabatic Proton-Coupled Electron Transfer between Interfacial Tyrosines in Ribonucleotide Reductase

## 核糖核苷酸还原酶中界面酪氨酸之间非绝热质子耦合电子转移中的氢隧穿和构象运动

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-6zxh1?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Alexander, Soudackov

Ribonucleotide reductase is essential for DNA synthesis and repair in all living organisms. The mechanism of E. coli RNR requires long-range radical transport through a proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) pathway spanning two different protein subunits. Herein, the direct PCET reaction between the interfacial tyrosine residues, Y356 and Y731, is investigated with a vibronically nonadiabatic theory that treats the transferring proton and all electrons quantum mechanically. The input quantities to the PCET rate constant expression are computed with a combination of density functional theory and molecular dynamics simulations. The calculations highlight the importance of hydrogen tunneling in this PCET reaction. Compression of the distance between the proton donor and acceptor oxygen atoms of the interfacial tyrosine residues is essential to facilitate hydrogen tunneling by increasing the overlap between the reactant and product proton vibrational wavefunctions. This compression occurs by thermal conformational fluctuations of these interfacial tyrosine residues. N733 and R411 are identified as key residues that can hydrogen bond to Y731 and Y356, respectively, and thereby compete with the hydrogen-bonding interaction between Y731 and Y356 required for direct PCET. Understanding the roles of hydrogen tunneling and conformational motions in this interfacial PCET reaction, as well as identifying other residues that may impact the kinetics, is important for targeted protein engineering efforts to modulate RNR activity.


---
# Dissecting the Molecular Structure of the Air/Ice Interface from Quantum Simulations of the Sum-Frequency Generation Spectrum

## 从和频产生光谱的量子模拟中剖析空气/冰界面的分子结构

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-w67vm-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Richa, Rashmi

Ice interfaces are pivotal in mediating key chemical and physical processes, such as heterogeneous chemical reactions in the environment, ice nucleation, and cloud microphysics.  At the ice surface, water molecules form a quasi-liquid layer (QLL) with distinct properties from the bulk.  Despite numerous experimental and theoretical studies, the molecular-level understanding of the QLL has remained elusive.  In this work, we use state-of-the-art quantum dynamics simulations with a realistic data-driven many-body potential to dissect the vibrational sum-frequency generation (vSFG) spectrum of the air/ice interface in terms of contributions arising from individual molecular layers, orientations, and hydrogen-bonding topologies that determine the QLL properties.  The agreement between experimental and simulated spectra provides a realistic molecular picture of the evolution of the QLL as a function of temperature without the need for empirical adjustments.  The emergence of specific features in the experimental vSFG spectrum suggests that surface restructuring may occur at lower temperatures. This work not only underscores the critical role of many-body interactions and nuclear quantum effects in understanding ice surfaces but also provides a definitive molecular-level picture of the QLL, which plays a central role in multiphase and heterogeneous processes of relevance to a range of fields, including atmospheric chemistry, cryopreservation, and materials science.

