# Nonlinear phononics in Bi$_2$Te$_3$ from first-principles

## 基于第一性原理的Bi $_2 $ Te $_3 $ 中的非线性声子学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04101

**Authors:** A. Levchuk, R. Busselez, G. Vaudel, P. Ruello, V. Juv\'e, B. Arnaud

arXiv:2501.04101v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations not only allow to predict the vibrational and optical properties of solids but also to understand and disentangle the mechanisms playing a key role in the generation of coherent optical phonons. Recent experiments performed on a Bi$_2$Te$_3$ nanofilm have shown that a THz pulse launches at least a coherent $A_{1g}^1$ phonon as the transient transmittance measured using an isotropic detection scheme displays oscillations with a frequency matching the frequency of the $A_{1g}^1$ mode measured in Raman experiments. Such an observation can be explained by invoking either a sum frequency process or cubic/quartic phonon-phonon couplings as considered for Bi$_2$Se$_3$, a parent compound of Bi$_2$Te$_3$. By resorting to group theory and calculating energy surfaces from first-principles, the main phonon-phonon couplings can be identified. Furthermore, a minimal model can be built to compute the dynamics of the Raman active modes coupled to the infrared active mode driven by the experimental THz pulse. Our model firmly establishes that cubic phonon-phonon interactions are relevant as the agreement between the computed and experimental transmittance is noteworthy.


---
# Influence of surface relaxations on scanning probe microscopy images of the charge density wave material 2H-NbSe$_2$

## 表面弛豫对电荷密度波材料2H-NbSe $_2 $ 扫描探针显微图像的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17231

**Authors:** Nikhil S. Sivakumar, Joost Aretz, Sebastian Scherb, Marion van Midden Mavri\v{c}, Nora Huijgen, Umut Kamber, Daniel Wegner, Alexander A. Khajetoorians, Malte R\"osner, Nadine Hauptmann

arXiv:2407.17231v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Scanning tunneling microscopy is the method of choice for characterizing charge density waves by imaging the variation in atomic-scale contrast of the surface. Due to the measurement principle of scanning tunneling microscopy, the electronic and lattice degrees of freedom are convoluted, making it difficult to disentangle a structural displacement from spatial variations in the electronic structure. In this work, we characterize the influence of the displacement of the surface-terminating Se atoms on the 3 x 3 charge density wave contrast in scanning probe microscopy images of 2H-NbSe$_2$. In scanning tunneling microscopy images, we observe the 3 x 3 charge density wave superstructure and atomic lattice at all probed tip-sample distances. In contrast, non-contact atomic force microscopy images show both periodicities only at small tip-sample distances while, unexpectedly, a 3 x 3 superstructure is present at larger tip-sample distances. Using density functional theory calculations, we qualitatively reproduce the experimental findings and indicate that the 3 x 3 superstructure at different tip-sample distances in non-contact atomic force microscopy images is a result from different underlying interactions. In addition, we show that the displacement of the surface-terminating Se atoms has a negligible influence to the contrast in scanning tunneling microscopy images. Our combined experimental and theoretic work presents a method on how to discriminate the influence of the surface corrugation from the variation of the charge density to the charge density wave contrast in scanning probe microscopy images, which can provide insights into the influence of structural disorder to a charge density wave ground state.

